## **4.6 – VACANCIES**

### **4.6.1**

Vacancies on the Board shall exist:

   **4.6.1.1** - On the death or resignation of any director;  
   **4.6.1.2** - Whenever the number of authorized directors is increased;  
   **4.6.1.3** - Upon a failure of the members, at any members’ business meeting at which any director or directors are to be elected, to elect the number of directors required to be elected at that meeting;
   **4.6.1.4** - On the vote of the members to remove any director(s); or  
   **4.6.1.5** - On the declaration by Board resolution of a vacancy in the office of a director who has been declared of unsound mind by a final order of court, or convicted of a felony, or been found by a final order or judgment of any court to have breached any duty under Section 29–406 et seq. of the Act.

### **4.6.2**

Any director may resign effective upon giving written notice to the Chairman or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later date specified therein. Unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.

### **4.6.3**

A reduction of the number of authorized directors shall be effective only upon the expiration of the then current directors' terms of office or upon the occurrence of any other vacancy in the Board, unless the reduction or the amendment also provides for the removal of one or more specified directors.

### **4.6.4**

Except for a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors, vacancies on the Board shall be filled by a vote of the members during the during the first three months after the vacancy occurs.

### **4.6.5**

A person elected to fill a vacancy as provided by this Section shall hold office until the next election of the Board or until his or her death, resignation or removal from office.
