## **10.4 - MEMBERS' INSPECTION RIGHTS**

### **10.4.1**

A member of the Corporation shall be entitled to inspect and copy, during regular business hours at the Corporation's principal office, any of the records of the corporation described listed below, if the member delivers to the corporation a signed notice in the form of a record at least five business days before the date on which the member wishes to inspect and copy, subject to Section 10.4.2. The records the member may inspect include:

   **10.4.1.1** - Excerpts from any records required to be maintained under [Section 10.1.1](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/Bylaws/Article%2010%20Corporate%20records%2C%20reports%20and%20seal/10.01%20Maintenance%20of%20corporate%20records.md#1011), to the extent not subject to inspection under Section 10.4.1;  

   **10.4.1.2** - Accounting records of the corporation; and  
   **10.4.1.3** - The membership list; provided, however, the Corporation may comply at its expense with a member's demand to inspect the record of members by providing the member with a list of members that was compiled no earlier than the date of the member's demand.

### **10.4.2**

A member may inspect and copy the records described in Section 10.4.2 only if: 

   **10.4.2.1** - The member's demand is made in good faith and for a proper purpose;  
   **10.4.2.2** - The member describes with reasonable particularity the purpose and the records the member desires to inspect; and  
   **10.4.2.3** - The records are directly connected with this purpose.

### **10.4.3**

Copies under this section may be provided an electronic transmission if available and requested by the member.

### **10.4.4**

The Corporation may impose a reasonable charge, covering the costs of labor and material, for copies of any documents provided to the member. The charge shall not exceed the estimated cost of production, reproduction, or transmission of the records.

### **10.4.5**

A member's agent or attorney shall have the same inspection and copying rights as the member.

### **10.4.6**

The Corporation may, within 10 business days after receiving a demand under this Section, make a written offer of an alternative method if reasonable and timely achievement of the proper purpose specified in the demand without providing access to or a copy of the membership list. Any rejection of this offer must be in writing and must state the reasons the proposed alternative does not meet the proper purpose of the demand.

### **10.4.7**

Any inspection and copying under this Section may be made in person or by the member's agent or attorney. The right of inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts. This right of inspection extends to the records of any subsidiary of the Corporation.

### **10.4.8**

The right of inspection granted by this section may not be abolished or limited by a nonprofit corporation’s Articles of Incorporation or bylaws.
