**POSITION DESCRIPTION**

**Executive Director**

**Foundation for Earth Science**

**Updated July 10, 2014**

The Foundation for Earth Science is seeking applicants for the position
of Executive Director. The Foundation for Earth Science (FES;
[<span class="underline">http://earthsciencefoundation.org/</span>](http://earthsciencefoundation.org/))
is a non-profit 501(c)(3) scientific and education organization created
to support research networks and communities that provide the
information systems backbone for the dissemination and use of
Earth science information. Its primary responsibility is to provide
executive support to the Earth science community for these ends. The
initial and continuing focus of activity for the FES is to support the
Federation of Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP Federation;
[<span class="underline">http://esipfed.org/</span>](http://esipfed.org/)).
The ESIP Federation was created in 1998 by the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA) at the recommendation of the National
Research Council (NRC) to provide a more responsive system to deliver
data and information generated by the Earth Observing System. FES is now
sponsored by NASA and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), to support the ESIP Federation and the NOAA
Environmental Data Management Community. FES also receives funding to
lead community engagement activities for the National Science
Foundation’s (NSF) EarthCube initiative
([<span class="underline">http://earthcube.org/</span>](http://earthcube.ning.com/)).
The intent of these efforts is to engage the broader Earth science
community to facilitate the dissemination and use of Earth science data
and information.

As a non-profit corporation, the FES is overseen by a Board of Directors
drawn primarily from the Earth science community. It is expected that
the Executive Director will work with and take direction from the
president and chairman of the board on a regular basis. The FES
currently has two full-time staff members – the Executive Director and
an Information and Virtual Community Director. The staff members
coordinate the online volunteer efforts of more than 150 organizations
drawn largely from the ESIP Federation, and organize at least two
national meetings per year. The Executive Director is expected to be
self-motivated and able to operate independently in a work environment
based largely on the use of communications technology rather than daily
face-to-face interactions. The position also requires frequent
interaction with FES sponsors (e.g., NASA, NOAA, and NSF) and with the
leadership of the groups that the FES serves.

**Essential Duties and Responsibilities**

Under the direction of the Board of Directors, the Executive Director is
responsible for overall management and operation of the Foundation for
Earth Science and protection of the organization’s financial assets
while ensuring compliance with board directives and applicable grantor,
federal and state requirements. The Executive Director:

  - Raises funds to support the Foundation’s mission in conjunction
    with the Foundation Board of Directors;

  - Manages grants and contracts, and negotiates agreements with
    Federal government and other sponsors in support of the
    Foundation’s mission; monitors progress of grants; and fulfills
    reporting requirements related to all grants;

  - Works closely with ESIP Federation leadership and other FES
    constituents to ensure they are provided with appropriate support
    for their work;

  - Assists in the development of current and long-term organizational
    goals and objectives as well as policies and procedures for
    Foundation operations;

  - Establishes plans to achieve goals set by the Board of Directors

  - Implements policies, subject to approval by the Board of
    Directors;

  - Oversees all accounting functions including those necessary for
    auditing, budgeting, financial analysis, and payroll in accordance
    with generally accepted accounting principles, Board and Federal
    grant requirements, and all other applicable rules and guidelines,
    seeking guidance from professionals as needed to comply with all
    applicable rules and guidelines of accounting principles;

  - Handles all human resources functions including but not limited to
    supervising Foundation staff, hiring and termination, developing
    position descriptions, setting compensation, and applying
    Board-approved employee policies and benefits in accordance with
    federal and state requirements, seeking guidance from human
    resources professionals as needed to comply with all applicable
    rules and policies in accordance with federal and state
    requirements;

  - Interacts with other personnel and organizations in government,
    academic, commercial, and nonprofit sectors on matters related to
    Foundation business;

  - Seeks out and fosters relationships to promote the use of Earth
    science data and information products.

  - Composes e-mails, memoranda, correspondence and presentations as
    necessary to complete the essential job duties and requirements;

**Core Competencies**

To perform effectively in this position, the individual should
demonstrate the following competencies:

  - *Initiative:* Based on interactions with sponsors, program
    management, staff, and community members, the Executive Director
    (1) pursues opportunities in collaboration with community
    constituents that will support Foundation objectives, (2)
    recognizes and brings to the attention of the president of the
    Board issues that affect the organization, and implements plans to
    reach organizational goals as determined by the Board, (3)
    resolves problems as they occur, in consultation with the
    president and other members of the Board.

  - *Management*: Maintains effective systems of internal controls to
    account for all receipts and expenditures of funds. Manages
    corporate funds to maximize the earnings under the Federal
    regulations. Develops options for partnering with other Earth
    science organizations through the use of corporate resources to
    advance Foundation programs and services.

  - *Job Knowledge*: Understands the technical aspects of managing a
    nonprofit organization. Provides advice to its constituents and
    staff directly and/or solicits guidance from community
    constituents or other experts. Understands the duties and
    responsibilities of the position. Keeps job knowledge up-to-date.
    Obtains input from professionals as needed to properly perform job
    duties and responsibilities. Clearly understands the research and
    education mission of the organization. Continuously works to
    promote the Foundation and achieve its goals.

  - *Communication*: Communicates effectively with multiple audiences
    using a variety of formats. Examples include: written
    communications that clearly outline the situation and action
    items; verbal presentations and briefings at community venues,
    meetings of the Board and other parties regarding a variety of
    issues affecting the Foundation.

  - *Dependability*: Seeks increased responsibility while remaining
    conscientious, thorough, accurate, and reliable with respect to
    achieving the organization’s goals. This includes being available
    and responsive to issues and concerns as they arise.

  - *Technology*: Maintains current expertise with computers,
    software, and remote collaboration technologies to the extent
    required to perform the essential job duties and responsibilities.

**Education and/or Experience**

Advanced degree preferred, with at least 5 years leadership experience
in a nonprofit, academic or business setting.

**Travel**

The Executive Director must be able to travel to meet with potential
partners and sponsors, and to attend conferences, training and other
events that may be needed to acquire and maintain proficiency in
fulfilling the responsibilities of the position.

**Work Environment**

Access to a major transportation hub and robust telecommunications
capabilities are essential.
