Standing Committee and Cluster Policies and Procedures/Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) Reporting - Additional Information.md, before:

**Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) Reporting - Additional Information**
==================================================================================================

**Why and when to make a report**
------------------------------------------------

ESIP encourages you to report incidents of unacceptable behavior (as defined in CPG Section
3), even when the incident is deemed minor. Reports are useful not only for identifying individual
behaviors that need addressing but also for improving organizational practices. While the CPG
generally focuses on an individual’s actions, we as a community want to ensure that we also live
up to the CPG. Therefore, reporting seemingly minor unacceptable behavior might help highlight
an opportunity to improve our community. If you are uncertain whether an incident qualifies as
unacceptable, we would still suggest that you seek out any of the ESIP Staff members to
discuss the incident and, if appropriate, make a report yourself or via a proxy reporter.

**Channels of reporting**
------------------------------------------------

### **Direct reporting**

Individuals who experience or witness unacceptable behaviors in all ESIP activities (CPG
Section 1) are encouraged to make a report directly through Integrity Counts (CPG Section 5).
They can optionally identify themselves in the report, to enable any necessary follow-ups.

The reporting process through Integrity Counts is confidential. You have the option to be (1)
known to all involved in the process (i.e., you provide your contact information), (2) known to
Integrity Counts but anonymous (i.e., your contact information is not provided) to ESIP or
specific individuals within ESIP (by role or name), or (3) strictly anonymous. While the latter
“anonymous” may limit the ability to follow up with you, it is important that unacceptable
behavior is identified, so that patterns can be recognized and addressed.

### **Proxy reporting**

All reports, including proxy reports, are important to identify patterns of unacceptable behavior
of an individual or on a Community level. For whatever reason, if you do not wish to make a
report yourself, even anonymously, but want the information recorded, you may ask any of the
ESIP Staff to file a report on your behalf.

**What happens after a report is filed**
------------------------------------------------

Reports made to Integrity Counts (Web: https://www.integritycounts.ca/org/esip; Toll Free
Number: 1-866-921-6714; Email: esip@integritycounts.ca) are shared with ESIP’s Executive
Director, Operations Director and President, and, optionally, additional review committee
members that may include the Governance Chair and the Vice-President. Reporters may elect
to exclude one or more of these individuals from viewing the report.

Upon receiving a complaint from a community member, the complaint will be assessed for
severity and violation of the Community Participation Guidelines and all parties will be notified
of the complaint. Investigators will be assigned by ESIP’s Executive Director and/or Board
President, to investigate the complaint.

Reports will receive an acknowledgment of receipt. Once a reported incident has been
investigated and a decision communicated to the relevant parties, all have the opportunity to
appeal the decision by sending an email to inclusion@esipfed.org.

### **Investigation**

Reports are handled discreetly and privately; they will only be shared with those who can
investigate, respond, and advise. As part of this investigation, it may be necessary to disclose
some factual information related to the reported incident to others, such as key stakeholders
administering communities or events, witnesses, and implicated parties. The reporter will be
notified of any such disclosure.

### **Correspondence**

All reports are reviewed and responded to based on the nature of the report. ESIP will provide
reasonably prompt updates via Integrity Counts.

### **Redress**

When an investigation has been completed and the reported unacceptable behavior has been
confirmed, appropriate measures will be taken to address the situation (CPG Section 4).

Commit message:

Update Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) Reporting - Additional Information.md
Activated links.

Standing Committee and Cluster Policies and Procedures/Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) Reporting - Additional Information.md, after:

**Community Participation Guidelines (CPG) Reporting - Additional Information**
==================================================================================================

**Why and when to make a report**
------------------------------------------------

ESIP encourages you to report incidents of unacceptable behavior (as defined in [CPG Section
3](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Community%20Participation%20Guidelines.md#section-3----behaviors-that-will-not-be-tolerated)), even when the incident is deemed minor. Reports are useful not only for identifying individual
behaviors that need addressing but also for improving organizational practices. While the CPG
generally focuses on an individual’s actions, we as a community want to ensure that we also live
up to the CPG. Therefore, reporting seemingly minor unacceptable behavior might help highlight
an opportunity to improve our community. If you are uncertain whether an incident qualifies as
unacceptable, we would still suggest that you seek out any of the ESIP Staff members to
discuss the incident and, if appropriate, make a report yourself or via a [proxy reporter](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/Standing%20Committee%20and%20Cluster%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/Community%20Participation%20Guidelines%20(CPG)%20Reporting%20-%20Additional%20Information.md#proxy-reporting).

**Channels of reporting**
------------------------------------------------

### **Direct reporting**

Individuals who experience or witness unacceptable behaviors in all ESIP activities ([CPG
Section 1](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Community%20Participation%20Guidelines.md#section-1----when-to-use-these-guidelines)) are encouraged to make a report directly through Integrity Counts ([CPG Section 5](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Community%20Participation%20Guidelines.md#section-5----reporting)).
They can optionally identify themselves in the report, to enable any necessary follow-ups.

The reporting process through Integrity Counts is confidential. You have the option to be (1)
known to all involved in the process (i.e., you provide your contact information), (2) known to
Integrity Counts but anonymous (i.e., your contact information is not provided) to ESIP or
specific individuals within ESIP (by role or name), or (3) strictly anonymous. While the latter
“anonymous” may limit the ability to follow up with you, it is important that unacceptable
behavior is identified, so that patterns can be recognized and addressed.

### **Proxy reporting**

All reports, including proxy reports, are important to identify patterns of unacceptable behavior
of an individual or on a Community level. For whatever reason, if you do not wish to make a
report yourself, even anonymously, but want the information recorded, you may ask any of the
[ESIP Staff](https://www.esipfed.org/about/staff-2) to file a report on your behalf.

**What happens after a report is filed**
------------------------------------------------

Reports made to Integrity Counts (Web: https://www.integritycounts.ca/org/esip; Toll Free
Number: 1-866-921-6714; Email: esip@integritycounts.ca) are shared with ESIP’s Executive
Director, Operations Director and President, and, optionally, additional review committee
members that may include the Governance Chair and the Vice-President. Reporters may elect
to exclude one or more of these individuals from viewing the report.

Upon receiving a complaint from a community member, the complaint will be assessed for
severity and violation of the Community Participation Guidelines and all parties will be notified
of the complaint. Investigators will be assigned by ESIP’s Executive Director and/or Board
President, to investigate the complaint.

Reports will receive an acknowledgment of receipt. Once a reported incident has been
investigated and a decision communicated to the relevant parties, all have the opportunity to
appeal the decision by sending an email to inclusion@esipfed.org.

### **Investigation**

Reports are handled discreetly and privately; they will only be shared with those who can
investigate, respond, and advise. As part of this investigation, it may be necessary to disclose
some factual information related to the reported incident to others, such as key stakeholders
administering communities or events, witnesses, and implicated parties. The reporter will be
notified of any such disclosure.

### **Correspondence**

All reports are reviewed and responded to based on the nature of the report. ESIP will provide
reasonably prompt updates via Integrity Counts.

### **Redress**

When an investigation has been completed and the reported unacceptable behavior has been
confirmed, appropriate measures will be taken to address the situation ([CPG Section 4](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Community%20Participation%20Guidelines.md#section-4----consequences-of-unacceptable-behavior)).
