Standing Committee and Cluster Policies and Procedures/Funding Friday Rules.md, before:

---
FUNding Friday Rules
---

Summer 2017

FUNding Friday is an annual mini-grant competition associated with
ESIP's Summer Meeting.

The mini-grants are available to ESIP members (\$5000) and to students
and Education Committee workshop participants (\$3000), with total
number of awards specified annually and generally 2-4 awards per
participant group.

Projects are expected to be completed over the six month period between
the Summer Meeting of the award and the next Winter Meeting.

(FUNding Friday will be abbreviated as FF throughout this document.)

Purpose
-------

FF promotes and supports new collaborations and novel connections
between ESIP members' projects and technologies. FF showcases how a
modest amount of funding can lead to projects of real value to ESIP
community members and beyond.

Successful projects are:

1.  Innovative

2.  Collaborative

3.  Valuable to the ESIP community

Interested participants are encouraged to consider the meeting theme and
the discussions and activities of the Summer Meeting registrants when
developing a project idea. The competition does not have a single theme
or topical focus. A list of awarded projects is
[[available]{.underline}](http://wiki.esipfed.org/index.php/FUNding_Friday_Projects).

Eligibility and Participation
-----------------------------

### Eligibility

FF project leads can be ESIP members, student attendees including ESIP
student fellow, and participants of the Education committee's summer
meeting workshop. Other meeting attendees are welcome as project
participants.

Education Committee workshop participants do not need an ESIP member to
sponsor them or to be a project collaborator.

Students, including student fellows, do not need an ESIP member to
sponsor them or be a project collaborator.

An eligible member can be the lead person/principal investigator on only
ONE proposed project. Other project participants do not need to be ESIP
members.

FF awardees cannot be the principal investigator of a FF project the
following year or anyone receiving travel funding via ESIP, i.e. those
in leadership positions. Awardees can participate on an awarded grant
the next year.

For group projects, each group member MUST BE listed on the poster. We
strongly encourage all group members to be present during the Poster
Pitch event. We also strongly encourage participants to discuss project
roles and budgets during their project preparations.

FF is awarded as a prize and is transferred to individuals not
institutions. Those individuals will be taxed on the prize (see **Tax
Information for the FUNding Friday awards** below).

-   Federal employees may participate as project collaborators but
    > cannot receive cash prizes or travel funding.

-   ESIP members from non-federal organizations may also have
    > organizational limitations related to accepting outside funds or
    > using official resources for outside projects. It is the member's
    > responsibility to be aware of these limitations and propose
    > projects accordingly.

### How to Participate

Interested participants must exhibit a poster describing the project
during the Poster Pitch session (Friday morning, check the Summer
Meeting schedule for specific time and place). The poster should be hung
in the provided space before the pitch session begins.

The poster size is limited to 25 by 30 inches. It can be hand-drawn;
materials for the posters are provided to interested participants during
the FF Poster event Thursday night.

The lead person/principal investigator for the project must be present
at the Poster Pitch session on Friday morning. This person must give a
maximum 2 minute project pitch during this session. Proxies cannot
provide the project pitch. Additional project participants may
contribute to the project pitch. The 2 minute limit will be strictly
enforced.

Awards
------

Awards are determined by a community vote immediately following the
Poster Pitch session.

You must be present at the Poster Pitch session to vote.

Anyone who is a registrant of the Summer Meeting, i.e. anyone with a
badge, is eligible to vote.

Each person attending the Poster Pitch session (Friday morning) will
receive THREE member ballots and THREE student/educator ballots. You can
allocate these votes across projects, eg. three votes for one project or
one vote for three projects. Voting ends at the end of the Poster Pitch
session.

In the case of two-way tie for third place, the winners can choose (by
consensus) if they prefer to split the funding and do both projects, or
flip a coin to determine the winner. In the case of a three (or more)
way tie, the winner of the tie will be determined by a vote of the ESIP
Programming Committee at the next scheduled telecon.

The winners will be announced during lunch (refer to the Summer Meeting
schedule for details). Participants do not need to be present at the
award announcement; however, the project lead should verify that their
contact information is correct with ESIP staff immediately following the
Poster Pitch session if they will be unavailable for the award
announcements. Likewise, participants for awarded projects should verify
their contact information with ESIP staff immediately following the
announcements.

All decisions are final.

Awarded Projects: Responsibilities and Expectations
---------------------------------------------------

The awards are distributed in two parts:

1.  Half once a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), containing a
    > statement of work, is delivered to ESIP staff at the start of the
    > project after the Summer Meeting;

2.  Half following the next Winter Meeting after the results of the
    > project are presented during the poster session. All work must be
    > completed at this time. Awardees may present their projects in a
    > relevant session at the Winter Meeting but must present a poster.

Note that funding is not immediately disbursed - awardees should account
for the time needed to draft the MOU and ESIP staff response.

Variations in the schedule must be requested in the initial statement of
work and agreed upon by ESIP staff. The payment schedule can be revised
by the Executive Director in cases where there is a compelling reason to
modify the standard timeline.

Project groups may allocate the awarded funds within their groups as
necessary to meet the project goals. ESIP is not responsible for
managing those allocations.

All funds must be spent according to current US Government rules on
contract expenditures.

Overhead is not supported.

**Tax Information for the FUNding Friday awards **

An award is an amount received primarily in recognition of a special
achievement, like winning FUNding Friday. ESIP does not specifically
state how the money should be spent. Individuals accepting the cash
prize will need to submit a W-9 tax form, they will be sent a 1099-Misc,
Miscellaneous Income form, from ESIP and should claim this on their
annual taxes. Awardees will not be able to use the 1040EZ form and may
want to use their previous year's tax rate to estimate the tax liability
of the award.

Commit message:

Winter/summer P&P terms
* Replace "summer" with July and "winter" with January when referencing annual ESIP meetings.
* Change made throughout ESIP Policies and Procedures documents.
* Also made changes in the "Standing Committee and Cluster" P&P documents

Standing Committee and Cluster Policies and Procedures/Funding Friday Rules.md, after:

---
FUNding Friday Rules
---

Summer 2017

FUNding Friday is an annual mini-grant competition associated with
ESIP's July Meeting.

The mini-grants are available to ESIP members (\$5000) and to students
and Education Committee workshop participants (\$3000), with total
number of awards specified annually and generally 2-4 awards per
participant group.

Projects are expected to be completed over the six month period between
the July Meeting of the award and the next January Meeting.

(FUNding Friday will be abbreviated as FF throughout this document.)

Purpose
-------

FF promotes and supports new collaborations and novel connections
between ESIP members' projects and technologies. FF showcases how a
modest amount of funding can lead to projects of real value to ESIP
community members and beyond.

Successful projects are:

1.  Innovative

2.  Collaborative

3.  Valuable to the ESIP community

Interested participants are encouraged to consider the meeting theme and
the discussions and activities of the July Meeting registrants when
developing a project idea. The competition does not have a single theme
or topical focus. A list of awarded projects is
[[available]{.underline}](http://wiki.esipfed.org/index.php/FUNding_Friday_Projects).

Eligibility and Participation
-----------------------------

### Eligibility

FF project leads can be ESIP members, student attendees including ESIP
student fellow, and participants of the Education committee's July
Meeting workshop. Other meeting attendees are welcome as project
participants.

Education Committee workshop participants do not need an ESIP member to
sponsor them or to be a project collaborator.

Students, including student fellows, do not need an ESIP member to
sponsor them or be a project collaborator.

An eligible member can be the lead person/principal investigator on only
ONE proposed project. Other project participants do not need to be ESIP
members.

FF awardees cannot be the principal investigator of a FF project the
following year or anyone receiving travel funding via ESIP, i.e. those
in leadership positions. Awardees can participate on an awarded grant
the next year.

For group projects, each group member MUST BE listed on the poster. We
strongly encourage all group members to be present during the Poster
Pitch event. We also strongly encourage participants to discuss project
roles and budgets during their project preparations.

FF is awarded as a prize and is transferred to individuals not
institutions. Those individuals will be taxed on the prize (see **Tax
Information for the FUNding Friday awards** below).

-   Federal employees may participate as project collaborators but
    > cannot receive cash prizes or travel funding.

-   ESIP members from non-federal organizations may also have
    > organizational limitations related to accepting outside funds or
    > using official resources for outside projects. It is the member's
    > responsibility to be aware of these limitations and propose
    > projects accordingly.

### How to Participate

Interested participants must exhibit a poster describing the project
during the Poster Pitch session (Friday morning, check the July
Meeting schedule for specific time and place). The poster should be hung
in the provided space before the pitch session begins.

The poster size is limited to 25 by 30 inches. It can be hand-drawn;
materials for the posters are provided to interested participants during
the FF Poster event Thursday night.

The lead person/principal investigator for the project must be present
at the Poster Pitch session on Friday morning. This person must give a
maximum 2 minute project pitch during this session. Proxies cannot
provide the project pitch. Additional project participants may
contribute to the project pitch. The 2 minute limit will be strictly
enforced.

Awards
------

Awards are determined by a community vote immediately following the
Poster Pitch session.

You must be present at the Poster Pitch session to vote.

Anyone who is a registrant of the July Meeting, i.e. anyone with a
badge, is eligible to vote.

Each person attending the Poster Pitch session (Friday morning) will
receive THREE member ballots and THREE student/educator ballots. You can
allocate these votes across projects, eg. three votes for one project or
one vote for three projects. Voting ends at the end of the Poster Pitch
session.

In the case of two-way tie for third place, the winners can choose (by
consensus) if they prefer to split the funding and do both projects, or
flip a coin to determine the winner. In the case of a three (or more)
way tie, the winner of the tie will be determined by a vote of the ESIP
Programming Committee at the next scheduled telecon.

The winners will be announced during lunch (refer to the July Meeting
schedule for details). Participants do not need to be present at the
award announcement; however, the project lead should verify that their
contact information is correct with ESIP staff immediately following the
Poster Pitch session if they will be unavailable for the award
announcements. Likewise, participants for awarded projects should verify
their contact information with ESIP staff immediately following the
announcements.

All decisions are final.

Awarded Projects: Responsibilities and Expectations
---------------------------------------------------

The awards are distributed in two parts:

1.  Half once a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), containing a
    > statement of work, is delivered to ESIP staff at the start of the
    > project after the July Meeting;

2.  Half following the next January Meeting after the results of the
    > project are presented during the poster session. All work must be
    > completed at this time. Awardees may present their projects in a
    > relevant session at the January Meeting but must present a poster.

Note that funding is not immediately disbursed - awardees should account
for the time needed to draft the MOU and ESIP staff response.

Variations in the schedule must be requested in the initial statement of
work and agreed upon by ESIP staff. The payment schedule can be revised
by the Executive Director in cases where there is a compelling reason to
modify the standard timeline.

Project groups may allocate the awarded funds within their groups as
necessary to meet the project goals. ESIP is not responsible for
managing those allocations.

All funds must be spent according to current US Government rules on
contract expenditures.

Overhead is not supported.

**Tax Information for the FUNding Friday awards **

An award is an amount received primarily in recognition of a special
achievement, like winning FUNding Friday. ESIP does not specifically
state how the money should be spent. Individuals accepting the cash
prize will need to submit a W-9 tax form, they will be sent a 1099-Misc,
Miscellaneous Income form, from ESIP and should claim this on their
annual taxes. Awardees will not be able to use the 1040EZ form and may
want to use their previous year's tax rate to estimate the tax liability
of the award.
