### 2.1 Code of Conduct
A code of conduct is a set of rules outlining the responsibilities of, or proper practices for, an individual, party or organization. ESIP shall have a code of conduct in which members must abide by or be removed as an ESIP member.

ESIP is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion (or lack thereof). ESIP does not tolerate harassment of community members in any form. Sexual language and imagery is not appropriate for any ESIP venue, including ESIP Meetings, telecons, workshops, social events, virtual workspace, Twitter and other online media.

Although being affiliated with ESIP is generally encouraged, members should not use their affiliation with ESIP when expressing personal opinions, or as a representative ESIP, without written agreement or request from the ESIP President and approved by Executive Committee.

Members, in the core spirit of the ESIP Federation, are completely expected to respect the ideas and opinions of fellow members (no matter how crazy), and maintain a working environment that is open and non-offensive to any of its members.

ESIP community members violating these rules may be sanctioned or expelled from the ESIP meetings, ESIP membership, or banned from the ESIP websites without a refund at the discretion of the ESIP leadership.

The ESIP Code of Conduct is ever-evolving and all feedback is welcome. Please email Danie Kinkade (dk, ESIP Partnership Chair or Annie Burgess (annieburgess@esipfed.org), ESIP Community Director with feedback.

This code of conduct was based on: http://confcodeofconduct.com
