### 2.2 Conflict of Interest
Article I
Purpose
 
The purpose of the conflict of interest policy is to protect the interest of The Earth Science Information Partners (the “Company”) when it is contemplating entering into a transaction or arrangement that might:
 
·      Benefit the private interest of an officer or director of the Company or might result in a possible excess benefit transaction.
·      Impact the board of directors and officers related to holding positions with other organizations or corporations/ business, institutions
·      Affect the role of employees, ofﬁcers, directors, in relation to also being employed by other organizations/ companies
·      Affect competition for grants, sub-contracts, funding allocations and decisions, etc.
 
This policy is intended to supplement but not replace any applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of interest applicable to nonprofit and charitable organizations.
 
Article II
Definitions
 
1.     	Interested Person
 
Any director, principal officer, or member of a committee with governing board delegated powers, who has a direct or indirect financial interest, as defined below, is an interested person.
Any director, principal officer, or member of a committee with governing board delegated powers, who has a direct or indirect governing or advising interest, as defined below, is an interested person.
Any employee, who has a direct or indirect financial interest, as defined below, is an interested person.
 
2.     	Financial Interest
 
A person has a financial interest if the person has, directly or indirectly, through business, investment, or family:
 
a.   An ownership or investment interest in any entity with which the Company has a transaction or arrangement,
 
b.   A compensation arrangement with the Company or with any entity or individual with which the Company has a transaction or arrangement, or
 
c.   A potential ownership or investment interest in, or compensation arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the Company is negotiating a transaction or arrangement.
 
Compensation includes direct and indirect remuneration as well as gifts or favors that are not insubstantial.
 
A financial interest is not necessarily a conflict of interest.  Under Article III, Section 2, a person who has a financial interest has a conflict of interest if and only if the appropriate governing board or committee decides that a conflict of interest exists.
 
3.     	Governing Interest
 
A person has a governing interest if the person has, directly or indirectly, through business, investment, or family:
 
a.   A role in board of directors, or similar entity which exerts governance and/or direction over another organization or project in the same or similar business area as the Company.
 
b.   A role as principle investigator for another organization or project in the same or similar business area as the Company.
 
A governing interest is not necessarily a conflict of interest.  Under Article III, Section 2, a person who has a governing interest has a conflict of interest if and only if the appropriate governing board or committee decides that a conflict of interest exists.
 
4.     	Advising Interest
 
A person has an advising interest if the person has, directly or indirectly, through business, investment, or family: a role in advising any external entity which operates in the same or similar business area as the Company.
 
An advising interest is not necessarily a conflict of interest.  Under Article III, Section 2, a person who has an advising interest has a conflict of interest if and only if the appropriate governing board or committee decides that a conflict of interest exists
 
Article III
Procedures
 
1.     	Duty to Disclose
 
In connection with any actual or possible conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose to the Company the existence of the specific interest and be given the opportunity to disclose all material facts to the directors and members of committees with governing board delegated powers considering the proposed transaction or arrangement
 
2.     	Determining Whether a Conflict of Interest Exists
 
After disclosure of the specific interest and all material facts, and after any discussion with the interested person, he/she shall leave the governing board or committee meeting while the determination of a conflict of interest is discussed and voted upon. The remaining board or committee members shall decide if a conflict of interest exists.
 
3.     	Procedures for Addressing the Conflict of Interest
 
a.   An interested person may make a presentation at the governing board or committee meeting, but after the presentation, he/she shall leave the meeting during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or arrangement involving the possible conflict of interest.
 
b.   The chairperson of the governing board or committee shall, if appropriate, appoint a disinterested person or committee to investigate alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement.
 
c.   After exercising due diligence, the governing board or committee shall determine whether the Company can obtain, with reasonable efforts, a more advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity that would not give rise to a conflict of interest.
 
d.   If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not reasonably possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest, the governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the disinterested directors whether the transaction or arrangement is in the Company’s best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair and reasonable. In conformity with the above determination it shall make its decision as to whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.
 
4.     	Violations of the Conflicts of Interest Policy
 
a.   If the governing board or committee has reasonable cause to believe a member has failed to disclose actual or possible conflicts of interest, it shall inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford the member an opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.
 
b.   If, after hearing the member’s response and after making further investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or possible conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and corrective action.
 
Article IV
Records of Proceedings
 
The minutes of the governing board and all committees with board delegated powers shall contain:
 
a.   The names of the persons who disclosed or otherwise were found to have a financial, governing or advising interest in connection with an actual or possible conflict of interest, the nature of such interest, any action taken to determine whether a conflict of interest was present, and the governing board’s or committee’s decision as to whether a conflict of interest in fact existed.
 
b.   The names of the persons who were present for discussions and votes relating to the transaction or arrangement, the content of the discussion, including any alternatives to the proposed transaction or arrangement, and a record of any votes taken in connection with the proceedings.
 
Article V
Compensation
 
a.   A voting member of the governing board who receives compensation, directly or indirectly, from the Company for services is precluded from voting on matters pertaining to that member’s compensation.
 
b.   A voting member of any committee whose jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly, from the Company for services is precluded from voting on matters pertaining to that member’s compensation.
 
c.   No voting member of the governing board or any committee whose jurisdiction includes compensation matters and who receives compensation, directly or indirectly, from the Company, either individually or collectively, is prohibited from providing information to any committee regarding compensation.
 
Article VI
Annual Conflict of Interest Disclosures
 
Each director, principal officer, member of a committee with governing board delegated powers and employee shall annually complete and file with the Company the Annual Conflict of Interest Disclosure Form, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Disclosure Form”), no later than July 1st of each year.  In accordance with its terms, the Disclosure Form must be amended to reflect material changes that occur during the course of the year.  The Disclosure Form shall also recite that such person:
 
a.   Has received a copy of the Company’s conflict of interest policy,
 
b.   Has read and understands the policy,
 
c.   Has agreed to comply with the policy, and
 
d.   Understands the Company is charitable and in order to maintain its federal tax exemption it must engage primarily in activities which accomplish one or more of its tax-exempt purposes.
 
Article VII
Periodic Reviews
 
To ensure the Company operates in a manner consistent with charitable purposes and does not engage in activities that could jeopardize its tax-exempt status, periodic reviews shall be conducted. The periodic reviews shall, at a minimum, include the following subjects:
 
a.   Whether compensation arrangements and benefits are reasonable, based on competent survey information, and are the result of arm’s length bargaining.
 
b.   Whether partnerships, joint ventures, and arrangements with management organizations conform to the Company’s written policies, are properly recorded, reflect reasonable investment or payments for goods and services, further charitable purposes and do not result in inurement, impermissible private benefit or in an excess benefit transaction.
 
Article VIII
Use of Outside Experts
 
When conducting the periodic reviews as provided for in Article VII, the Company may, but need not, use outside advisors. If outside experts are used, their use shall not relieve the governing board of its responsibility for ensuring periodic reviews are conducted.
