### 2.5 Proposal development
Guiding Principles:
 
All members of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners (“Federation”) members should be provided with equal access to information on grants, contracts or any other funding opportunities that the Foundation for Earth Science (“Foundation”) discovers and/or pursues. The goal of the Foundation’s fundraising efforts is to open up  new  sources of funding and work for the Federation and its members.
 
A: General Rules:
 
A-1: The Foundation will post, on the Federation website, information about promising funding opportunities (both Foundation-generated and non- Foundation generated) that it discovers that might be of value to Federation members. The Foundation will also notify all Federation members by email when a particularly promising new funding opportunity has been posted.
 
A-2: The Foundation will post, on the Federation website,  information  about funding opportunities that the Foundation generates from other funding sources. The Foundation will also notify all Federation members by email of the opportunity and the submission procedure for proposals.
 
A-3:  All Federation members will have the right to compete individually and/or   with partners for all funding opportunities generated by the Foundation. The partners may include non-Federation members, however, the participation  of the non-Federation partner or partners should not exceed 50% of the proposed budget for the proposal.
 
A-4: The Foundation will initiate an annual planning process aimed at identifying worthy earth science information projects involving Federation members  that it will seek funding for during the coming year. The Foundation will distribute, via email and at least one month prior to the Federation’s annual Assembly meeting, an annual progress report on fund raising. The Foundation will also present its annual progress report at the Federation’s annual meeting and address questions raised by the Assembly.
 
A- 5:   All Federation members, Committees and Working Groups will have a right  to compete/contribute individually and/or with partners in the Foundation’s annual planning process via concept papers. All project concept papers approved by the Federation’s Executive Committee will be included in the Foundation’s “Strategic Funding Prospectus”. The Prospectus will form the basis for a substantial part of the Foundation’s fundraising efforts during the twelve months following its adoption. The partners may include non- Federation members, however, the participation of the non-Federation partner should not exceed 50% of the budget for the proposed project.
 
B: Foundation-Led Projects:
 
B- 1: The Foundation may identify a funding opportunity that it deems to be a candidate for a proposal from the Foundation. In these cases, the Foundation will to the maximum extent possible, solicit proposals for the completion of proposal work elements from Federation members. The Foundation will post information about all such subcontract opportunities on the Federation’s website. The Foundation will also notify all Federation members by email when a Foundation subcontract opportunity has been posted. In the interests of fairness, the Foundation will not discuss subcontract opportunities with individual Federation members  before posting the announcement. (Also see the Foundation’s Policy Manual which makes a clear distinction between the broad policy making tasks of the Foundation Board verses day to day management tasks of the Executive Director).
 
B-2: All Federation members will have the right to compete individually and/or in clusters for subcontracts in Foundation-led projects.
 
B-3: A group of members of the Federation may identify a unique funding opportunity that they deem to be a candidate for a proposal from the Foundation. In these cases, if the Foundation agrees that the funding opportunity is worthy of the Foundation’s effort, the Foundation will work with the originators of the idea to generate funding for the proposal and to implement the project. In the unlikely case of similar funding opportunities developed by distinct groups of Federation members, the Executive Director will try to negotiate an accommodation acceptable to all.
 
B-4: The Executive Director of the Foundation will determine the best team of Federation members and other participants for a Foundation-led project based upon responses to the posting of the opportunity. The Executive Director will take into account the quality of the subcontract proposals received and the goal of maximizing the participation of Federation  members in making his subcontract selections and be prepared to defend his decisions. Also see B-5 below.
 
B- 5: Any Federation member that is dissatisfied with the outcome of the subcontract selection process may request that the Federation’s  Constitution and Bylaws Committee appoint a non-interested ombudsman  to investigate the selection process. The ombudsman will not have the power to change the outcome of the subcontract selection process under investigation, but may suggest changes in the selection process for future proposals. The ombudsman will report to the Federation’s Constitution and Bylaws Committee and Executive Committee, the Foundation’s Board of Directors and the Federation member(s) that requested the investigation. Requests for such an investigation and the resulting report will become part of both the Federation’s and the Foundation’s permanent records. Such reports/requests also will be presented to the Assembly.
 
C: Funding for Foundation Operations:
 
C- 1: After consultation with the President of the Federation and the Chairs of the Federation’s Executive Committee, the Executive Director will prepare a proposed annual operating budget for the Foundation for consideration of the Foundation’s Board of Directors. Once approved, the  Executive  Director will have the authority to seek grants, contracts or other funding opportunities to finance this budget.
 
C- 2: The Foundation will charge a 10% administrative fee for  all  funding  generated by the Foundation for Federation members under the provisions of A-2 and A-4 of these Guidelines. The Foundation will charge a 15% administrative fee for all Foundation-led projects or section A-2 and A-4 projects where the Foundation provides bookkeeping and accounting services. Only one of these administrative fees will apply to any given project.
 
D: Federation Letters of Support:
 
D- 1: All Federation members have a right to have a standard letter of support for their proposals from the Federation even when competing with another Federation member for the same grant or contract. All such letters will be prepared by the Federation’s Front Office and signed by the Federation President.
 
D-2: To receive a letter of support from the Federation, the Federation member shall articulate how the proposed work would benefit the Federation as a whole.
 
D-3: The application for a letter of support (and the accompanying proposal)  should be addressed to the Federation President and sent to the  Foundation Front Office.
 
D-4: The Federation member shall notify the Federation about the results of the proposal selection process.
 
Rule Amendments
 
The Executive Committee of the Federation will monitor the implementation and continued execution of the Foundation’s fundraising program and, if necessary, recommend changes to these rules to the Board of Directors of the Foundation.
