## **3.11 - NOTICE OF MEETINGS**

### **3.11.1**

Whenever members are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given to each member entitled to vote at that meeting. The notice shall specify the place, date and time of the meeting. For the annual meeting, the notice shall state the matters that the Board, at the time notice is given, intends to present for action by the members. For a special meeting, the notice shall state the general nature of the business to be transacted and shall state that no other business may be transacted. The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the names of all persons who are nominees when notice is given.

### **3.11.2**

Approval by the members of any of the following proposals, other than by unanimous approval of those entitled to vote, is valid only if the notice or written waiver of notice states the general nature of the proposal or proposals:

   **3.11.2.1** - Removing a director;  
   **3.11.2.2** - Filling vacancies on the Board;  
   **3.11.2.3** - Amending the Articles of Incorporation;  
   **3.11.2.4** - Electing to wind up and dissolve the Corporation;  
   **3.11.2.5** - Approving a plan of merger; or  
   **3.11.2.6** - Approving a membership exchange.

### **3.11.3**

Notice of any members’ business meeting shall be in writing and shall be given at least 10 but no more than 60 days before the meeting date. The notice shall be given either personally, or by first class, registered, or certified mail, electronic transmission, or by other means of written communication, charges prepaid, and shall be addressed to each member entitled to vote, at the address or email address of that member as it appears on the books of the Corporation or at the address given by the member to the Corporation for purposes of notice. Provided, however, that any member may revoke authorization to receive notices from the Corporation by email. Such revocation shall be deemed to occur if:

   **3.11.3.1** - The Corporation is unable to deliver two consecutives notices or other communications to the member sent by email, or  
   **3.11.3.2** - The secretary or any other person responsible for giving notice via email becomes aware of the inability of the member to receive emails.
