## **3.15 – VOTING**

### **3.15.1**

Subject to the Act, all members in good standing on the record date shall be entitled to vote at any members' business meeting.

### **3.15.2**

The Member Representative of each member entitled to vote may cast one vote on each matter submitted to a vote of members.

### **3.15.3**

Voting may be by voice or by ballot, except that any election of directors must be by ballot if demanded before the voting begins by any member eligible to vote at the meeting. The Board may provide for members to vote by ballot via electronic mail (i.e., email) or electronic message board or network, but only as follows:

   **3.15.3.1** - Member Representatives may vote via email when their email is directed to the email address that the Corporation has provided from time to time to members for sending such communications to the Corporation.  
   **3.15.3.2** - Member Representatives may vote via electronic message board or network that the Corporation has designated for those communications, and which transmission shall be validly delivered upon the posting.  
   **3.15.3.3** - Voting via email, electronic message board and network shall only be permitted and valid if the Corporation has placed in effect reasonable measures to verify that the sender is the member purporting to send the transmission and that creates a record that is capable of retention, retrieval, and review, and that may thereafter be rendered into clearly legible tangible form.  
   **3.15.3.4** - The Corporation may not send a ballot by email if the authority to communicate with the member has been revoked as set forth in Section 3.11.3.

### **3.15.4**

If a quorum is present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power represented at the meeting, entitled to vote, and voting on the matter, shall be deemed the act of the members unless the vote of a greater number is required by the Act, these bylaws, or the Articles of Incorporation.

## **3.16 - WAIVER OF NOTICE**

### **3.16.1**

The transaction of any members’ business meeting, however called or noticed and wherever held, shall be as valid as though taken at a meeting duly held after standard call and notice if:

   **3.16.1.1** - A quorum is present, and  
   **3.16.1.2** - Either before or after the meeting, each member entitled to vote, not present in person, signs a written waiver of notice, a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an approval of the minutes of the meeting. The waiver of notice, consent or approval need not specify either the business to be transacted or the purpose of the meeting except that, if action is taken or proposed to be taken for approval of any matter specified in Section 3.11.2 of this Article, the waiver of notice, consent or approval shall state the general nature of the proposal. All such waivers, consents or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.

### **3.16.2**

A member’s attendance at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of that meeting unless the member objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened. Attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required to be included in the notice of the meeting but not so included, if the objection is expressly made at the meeting.

## **3.17 - ACTIONS BY UNANIMOUS WRITTEN CONSENT**

Any action required or permitted to be taken by the members may be taken without a meeting if all members consent in writing to the action. The written consent or consents shall be filed with the minutes of the meeting. The action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the members.
