Deprecated Docs/Constitution.md, before:

**CONSTITUTION of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners**

Adopted Constitution on 19 January 2000 Amended Constitution on 24 November 2006

**PREAMBLE**
We believe that society’s quality of life, economic opportunities, and
stewardship of the planet are enhanced by regular use of scientifically sound Earth science information provided in a timely manner by a federation of partners collaborating to improve their collective services.

**ARTICLE I** 
*Name*  
This organization shall be named: **Federation of Earth Science
Information Partners,** hereafter called the ESIP Federation.

**ARTICLE II**
*Goals and Activities*

**Section 1 – Goal**

 - II.1.1 The goal of the ESIP Federation is to establish and continuously improve science-based end-to-end processes that increase the quality and value of Earth science products and services throughout their life-cycle for the benefit of the ESIP Federation’s stakeholder communities.

**Section 2 – Activities**

 - II.2.1 The ESIP Federation shall achieve its goal by establishing and maintaining an organizational environment that will facilitate interactions among scientists, engineers, information technologists, and user communities. Central activities related to this goal include:
	 - a.  Encouraging the use of best science practices to ensure the quality and breadth of data and resultant information, products and services.  
	 - Ensuring that data and information can be readily exchanged and integrated to improve Earth science data, information, products, and services.  
	 - c. Contributing to the development of an Earth science information economy through application research and commerce.  
	 - d.  Increasing the diversity and breadth of users and uses of Earth science data, information, products and services.  

**ARTICLE III** 
*Partnership* 

**Section 1 – Eligibility**

 - III.1.1 Any entity engaged in activities pursuant to the goals and
objectives of the ESIP Federation shall be eligible to join.
Specifically, ESIP Federation Partners (ESIPs) will be expected to
contribute substantively to the provision of improved products and
services based on Earth science. ESIP contributions and expertise will include, but will not necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following activities: archiving and distributing remotely sensed and ground based data; the scientific development, provision, and support of data and information products and services; and the development of Earth science applications. In addition, ESIPs may include major financial or in-kind supporters of the ESIP Federation’s activities.

**Section 2 – ESIP Categories** 

 - III.2.1  There may be multiple categories of ESIPs, whose defining characteristics are as described in the Bylaws.
 - III.2.2  Each category of ESIP shall have rights and obligations defined in the Bylaws.  
 - III.2.3  New categories of ESIP may be defined upon recommendation of the Partnership Administrative Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.  
 - III.2.4  Existing Partnership categories may be dropped or modified upon recommendation of the Partnership Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.  

**Section 3 – New ESIPs**

 - III.3.1 New ESIPs may be added to each ESIP category upon application to the Partnership Committee (see Article VI), review and presentation by the Partnership Committee of candidate qualifications to the ESIPFederation Assembly (see Article IV), and upon receipt of approval by two-thirds vote of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.

**Section 4 – Ending a Partnership**

- III.4.1  Any ESIP may leave the ESIP Federation voluntarily by the
process defined in the Bylaws.  
- III.4.2  Any ESIP may be removed from the ESIP Federation for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure the ESIP Federation or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive of the ESIP Federation’s goals and objectives. No ESIP shall be removed except after opportunity to be heard as provided in the Bylaws and upon receiving a two-thirds vote for termination by the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.
 

**ARTICLE IV**
*Assembly*

**Section 1 – Definition**
 
 - IV .1.1 The senior deliberative body of the ESIP Federation shall be the Assembly of Representatives (Assembly). It shall determine the policies and programs of the ESIP Federation, and act on resolutions and motions brought before it by its Representatives.

**Section 2 – ESIP Representation**

 - IV.2.1 Each ESIP may appoint one designated Representative to serve on the Assembly as specified in the Bylaws. Proxy representation is permitted as specified in the Bylaws.

**Section 3 – Approving the Constitution and Bylaws** 

- IV.3.1 The Assembly shall be responsible for approving the Constitution of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners and the Bylaws of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners.

**Section 4 – Amending the Constitution and Bylaws**

- IV.4.1 The Assembly shall be responsible for amending the Constitution as established in Article XI and for amending the Bylaws as established in the Bylaws.

**Section 5 – Assembly Meetings**

- IV .5.1 The ESIP Federation shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Assembly of Representatives which shall be called by the Executive Committee as specified in the Bylaws.
- IV .5.2 Additional meetings of the Assembly may be called by either the Executive Committee or Representatives of the Assembly as specified in the Bylaws.

**ARTICLE V**
*Officers* 

**Section 1 – Definition**

- V.1.1 Officers of the ESIP Federation shall be a President and Vice
President who shall be Representatives of the Assembly elected by secret ballot as described in the Bylaws.

**Section 2 – Duties**

- V .2.1 The duty of the Officers is to conduct the business of the ESIP Federation as specified by the Constitution and Bylaws. 
- V .2.2 The President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and meetings of the Executive Committee.
- V .2.3 The Vice President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of the President.

**ARTICLE VI**
*Administrative Committees*

**Section 1 – General**

-   VI.1.1  The Administrative Committees established by this Constitution are an Executive Committee, a Partnership Committee, a Finance and Appropriations Committee, and a Constitution and Bylaws Committee.  
-   VI.1.2  Other Administrative Committees may be established by the Assembly and they shall have membership, duties, and responsibilities as specified in the Bylaws.  

**Section 2 – Committee Members**

-   VI.2.1  The Chair of each Administrative Committee shall be a Representative to the Assembly.  
-   VI.2.2  Chairs of each Administrative Committee shall be elected by the Assembly and serve for terms as described in the Bylaws.  
-   VI.2.3  Members of each Administrative Committee shall be elected as described in the Bylaws.  

**Section 3 – Executive Committee**

-   VI.3.1  The Executive Committee shall consist of the President and Vice President of the Assembly and other individuals as specified in the Bylaws.  
-   VI.3.2  The Executive Committee shall have limited power to act on behalf of the Assembly. It may not assume the duties of the Finance and Appropriations Committee or have the power to alter the Constitution or Bylaws. It shall have other duties as specified in the Bylaws.  

**Section 4 – Constitution and Bylaws Committee**

-   VI.4.1  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall provide advice to the ESIP Federation on interpretation of the Constitution and Bylaws.  
-   VI.4.2  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee will be responsible for conducting elections and other voting of the ESIP Federation according to the Constitution and Bylaws.
-   VI.4.3 The Constitution and Bylaws Committee will prepare properly formulated amendments to the Constitution and Bylaws of the ESIP Federation at the request of, and advice from the Assembly.

**Section 5 – Finance and Appropriations Committee**

VI.5.1 The Finance and Appropriations Committee shall administer the financial resources of the ESIP Federation and advise the Federation on financial matters and appropriations according to the Bylaws.

**Section 6 – Partnership Committee**

VI.6.1 The Partnership Committee shall be responsible for partnership matters of the ESIP Federation including advising the Federation on new membership categories and new Partners according to the Bylaws.

**ARTICLE VII**
*Standing Committees, Working Groups and Clusters*

**Section 1 – General**

-   VII.1.1  The ESIP Federation shall utilize Standing Committees,
Working Groups, and Clusters to facilitate the conduct of its business and activities as described in the Bylaws.  
-   VII.1.2  Recommendations, decisions, and activities of Standing
Committees, Working Groups, and Clusters may not be represented as those of the ESIP Federation as a whole without the explicit agreement of the Assembly.  

**Section 2 – Standing Committees**

-   VII.2.1  Standing Committees shall champion and carry out the four central activities of the ESIP Federation (Article II) as explicated in the Bylaws.  
-   VII.2.2  Participation in a Standing Committee shall be open to
any ESIP.  
-   VII.2.3  Standing Committees shall operate and be regulated as
provided for in the Bylaws.  

**Section 3 – Working Groups**

-   VII.3.1  ESIP Federation Working Groups may be created only by the Assembly or one of its Committees.  
-   VII.3.2  Working Groups shall have a specified task to perform and
shall have a finite duration.  
-   VII.3.3  Participation in Working Groups is open to any ESIP.  
-   VII.3.4  Further duties and responsibilities of Working Groups shall
be as provided in the Bylaws.  

**Section 4 – Clusters**

-   VII.4.1  ESIP Federation Clusters may form to address an Earth
science problem of interest to the ESIP Federation.  
-   VII.4.2  Further duties and responsibilities of ESIP Federation
    Clusters shall be as provided in the Bylaws.  

**ARTICLE VIII**
*Bylaws*

**Section 1 – General**

- VIII.1.1 The Assembly of Representatives may adopt or amend Bylaws not in conflict with this Constitution as may be necessary for the proper governing of the ESIP Federation.

**ARTICLE IX**
*Amendments to the Constitution*

**Section 1 – Proposing Amendments**

-   IX.1.1  Any Representative of the Assembly may propose an amendment to the Constitution of the Federation of Earth Science
Information Partners.  
-   IX.1.2  Proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee at least sixty days prior to any action on the proposed amendment and must contain endorsement of not less than one-fourth of the representatives of the Assembly.  

**Section 2 – Acting on Proposals**

-   IX.2.1  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall review the
proposal and render an opinion as to its relationship to the Constitution.  
-   IX.2.2  The Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall
circulate the proposed amendment and the opinion of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee to the full membership of the Assembly at least thirty days prior to any action on the amendment by the Assembly.  
-   IX.2.3  The proposed amendment shall be debated at the next meeting of the Assembly.  
-   IX.2.4  The vote shall be by secret ballot. If two-thirds or more of
the entire Assembly vote in favor of the proposed amendment, it shall be adopted.  

**ARTICLE X**
*Transition from WP-ESIP Federation*

**Section 1 – General**

- X.1.1 During the transition period between the ratification of the
Constitution and Bylaws and the first Annual Meeting of the newly formed ESIP Federation created by these Constitution and Bylaws, the transition process described in Article X will supersede the election processes described elsewhere in the Constitution and Bylaws.
-   X.1.2  Following the initial passing of the Constitution and Bylaws
the following persons shall occupy the following ESIP Federation positions:
	- a.  Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole becomes the President  
	- b.  Vice-Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole becomes the Vice  President  
	- c.  Type 1 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 1 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- d.  Type 2 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 2 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- e.  Type 3 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIPFederation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 3 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- f.  The NASA Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole  becomes the Category 4 Representative to the Executive Committee.  
	- g.  Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Bylaws and Rules Sub-Committee of the Whole  becomes the Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Administrative Committee.  
-   X.1.3  All other Committee positions are vacant upon the ratification of this Constitution and Bylaws and will be subject to the election processes described in these Constitution and Bylaws.  

**Recorded Changes to Constitution**

- Amend Article VI, Section 2.2, November 2006 
- Added Article VI, Section 2.3, November 2006

Commit message:

Replace deprecated term 'ESIPs' with 'ESIP Partner Organization'

Deprecated Docs/Constitution.md, after:

**CONSTITUTION of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners**

Adopted Constitution on 19 January 2000 Amended Constitution on 24 November 2006

**PREAMBLE**
We believe that society’s quality of life, economic opportunities, and
stewardship of the planet are enhanced by regular use of scientifically sound Earth science information provided in a timely manner by a federation of partners collaborating to improve their collective services.

**ARTICLE I** 
*Name*  
This organization shall be named: **Federation of Earth Science
Information Partners,** hereafter called the ESIP Federation.

**ARTICLE II**
*Goals and Activities*

**Section 1 – Goal**

 - II.1.1 The goal of the ESIP Federation is to establish and continuously improve science-based end-to-end processes that increase the quality and value of Earth science products and services throughout their life-cycle for the benefit of the ESIP Federation’s stakeholder communities.

**Section 2 – Activities**

 - II.2.1 The ESIP Federation shall achieve its goal by establishing and maintaining an organizational environment that will facilitate interactions among scientists, engineers, information technologists, and user communities. Central activities related to this goal include:
	 - a.  Encouraging the use of best science practices to ensure the quality and breadth of data and resultant information, products and services.  
	 - Ensuring that data and information can be readily exchanged and integrated to improve Earth science data, information, products, and services.  
	 - c. Contributing to the development of an Earth science information economy through application research and commerce.  
	 - d.  Increasing the diversity and breadth of users and uses of Earth science data, information, products and services.  

**ARTICLE III** 
*Partnership* 

**Section 1 – Eligibility**

 - III.1.1 Any entity engaged in activities pursuant to the goals and
objectives of the ESIP Federation shall be eligible to join.
Specifically, ESIP Partner Organizations will be expected to
contribute substantively to the provision of improved products and
services based on Earth science. ESIP contributions and expertise will include, but will not necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following activities: archiving and distributing remotely sensed and ground based data; the scientific development, provision, and support of data and information products and services; and the development of Earth science applications. In addition, ESIP Partner Organizations may include major financial or in-kind supporters of the ESIP Federation’s activities.

**Section 2 – ESIP Categories** 

 - III.2.1  There may be multiple categories of ESIP Partner Organizations, whose defining characteristics are as described in the Bylaws.
 - III.2.2  Each category of ESIP Partner Organization shall have rights and obligations defined in the Bylaws.  
 - III.2.3  New categories of ESIP Partner Organization may be defined upon recommendation of the Partnership Administrative Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.  
 - III.2.4  Existing Partnership categories may be dropped or modified upon recommendation of the Partnership Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.  

**Section 3 – New ESIP Partner Organizations**

 - III.3.1 New ESIP Partner Organizations may be added to each ESIP category upon application to the Partnership Committee (see Article VI), review and presentation by the Partnership Committee of candidate qualifications to the ESIP Federation Assembly (see Article IV), and upon receipt of approval by two-thirds vote of the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.

**Section 4 – Ending a Partnership**

- III.4.1  Any ESIP Partner Organization may leave the ESIP Federation voluntarily by the
process defined in the Bylaws.  
- III.4.2  Any ESIP Partner Organization may be removed from the ESIP Federation for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure the ESIP Federation or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive of the ESIP Federation’s goals and objectives. No ESIP Partner Organization shall be removed except after opportunity to be heard as provided in the Bylaws and upon receiving a two-thirds vote for termination by the entire ESIP Federation Assembly.
 

**ARTICLE IV**
*Assembly*

**Section 1 – Definition**
 
 - IV .1.1 The senior deliberative body of the ESIP Federation shall be the Assembly of Representatives (Assembly). It shall determine the policies and programs of the ESIP Federation, and act on resolutions and motions brought before it by its Representatives.

**Section 2 – ESIP Representation**

 - IV.2.1 Each ESIP may appoint one designated Representative to serve on the Assembly as specified in the Bylaws. Proxy representation is permitted as specified in the Bylaws.

**Section 3 – Approving the Constitution and Bylaws** 

- IV.3.1 The Assembly shall be responsible for approving the Constitution of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners and the Bylaws of the Federation of Earth Science Information Partners.

**Section 4 – Amending the Constitution and Bylaws**

- IV.4.1 The Assembly shall be responsible for amending the Constitution as established in Article XI and for amending the Bylaws as established in the Bylaws.

**Section 5 – Assembly Meetings**

- IV .5.1 The ESIP Federation shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Assembly of Representatives which shall be called by the Executive Committee as specified in the Bylaws.
- IV .5.2 Additional meetings of the Assembly may be called by either the Executive Committee or Representatives of the Assembly as specified in the Bylaws.

**ARTICLE V**
*Officers* 

**Section 1 – Definition**

- V.1.1 Officers of the ESIP Federation shall be a President and Vice
President who shall be Representatives of the Assembly elected by secret ballot as described in the Bylaws.

**Section 2 – Duties**

- V .2.1 The duty of the Officers is to conduct the business of the ESIP Federation as specified by the Constitution and Bylaws. 
- V .2.2 The President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and meetings of the Executive Committee.
- V .2.3 The Vice President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and meetings of the Executive Committee in the absence of the President.

**ARTICLE VI**
*Administrative Committees*

**Section 1 – General**

-   VI.1.1  The Administrative Committees established by this Constitution are an Executive Committee, a Partnership Committee, a Finance and Appropriations Committee, and a Constitution and Bylaws Committee.  
-   VI.1.2  Other Administrative Committees may be established by the Assembly and they shall have membership, duties, and responsibilities as specified in the Bylaws.  

**Section 2 – Committee Members**

-   VI.2.1  The Chair of each Administrative Committee shall be a Representative to the Assembly.  
-   VI.2.2  Chairs of each Administrative Committee shall be elected by the Assembly and serve for terms as described in the Bylaws.  
-   VI.2.3  Members of each Administrative Committee shall be elected as described in the Bylaws.  

**Section 3 – Executive Committee**

-   VI.3.1  The Executive Committee shall consist of the President and Vice President of the Assembly and other individuals as specified in the Bylaws.  
-   VI.3.2  The Executive Committee shall have limited power to act on behalf of the Assembly. It may not assume the duties of the Finance and Appropriations Committee or have the power to alter the Constitution or Bylaws. It shall have other duties as specified in the Bylaws.  

**Section 4 – Constitution and Bylaws Committee**

-   VI.4.1  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall provide advice to the ESIP Federation on interpretation of the Constitution and Bylaws.  
-   VI.4.2  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee will be responsible for conducting elections and other voting of the ESIP Federation according to the Constitution and Bylaws.
-   VI.4.3 The Constitution and Bylaws Committee will prepare properly formulated amendments to the Constitution and Bylaws of the ESIP Federation at the request of, and advice from the Assembly.

**Section 5 – Finance and Appropriations Committee**

VI.5.1 The Finance and Appropriations Committee shall administer the financial resources of the ESIP Federation and advise the Federation on financial matters and appropriations according to the Bylaws.

**Section 6 – Partnership Committee**

VI.6.1 The Partnership Committee shall be responsible for partnership matters of the ESIP Federation including advising the Federation on new membership categories and new Partners according to the Bylaws.

**ARTICLE VII**
*Standing Committees, Working Groups and Clusters*

**Section 1 – General**

-   VII.1.1  The ESIP Federation shall utilize Standing Committees,
Working Groups, and Clusters to facilitate the conduct of its business and activities as described in the Bylaws.  
-   VII.1.2  Recommendations, decisions, and activities of Standing
Committees, Working Groups, and Clusters may not be represented as those of the ESIP Federation as a whole without the explicit agreement of the Assembly.  

**Section 2 – Standing Committees**

-   VII.2.1  Standing Committees shall champion and carry out the four central activities of the ESIP Federation (Article II) as explicated in the Bylaws.  
-   VII.2.2  Participation in a Standing Committee shall be open to
any ESIP Partner Organization.  
-   VII.2.3  Standing Committees shall operate and be regulated as
provided for in the Bylaws.  

**Section 3 – Working Groups**

-   VII.3.1  ESIP Federation Working Groups may be created only by the Assembly or one of its Committees.  
-   VII.3.2  Working Groups shall have a specified task to perform and
shall have a finite duration.  
-   VII.3.3  Participation in Working Groups is open to any ESIP Partner Organization.  
-   VII.3.4  Further duties and responsibilities of Working Groups shall
be as provided in the Bylaws.  

**Section 4 – Clusters**

-   VII.4.1  ESIP Federation Clusters may form to address an Earth
science problem of interest to the ESIP Federation.  
-   VII.4.2  Further duties and responsibilities of ESIP Federation
    Clusters shall be as provided in the Bylaws.  

**ARTICLE VIII**
*Bylaws*

**Section 1 – General**

- VIII.1.1 The Assembly of Representatives may adopt or amend Bylaws not in conflict with this Constitution as may be necessary for the proper governing of the ESIP Federation.

**ARTICLE IX**
*Amendments to the Constitution*

**Section 1 – Proposing Amendments**

-   IX.1.1  Any Representative of the Assembly may propose an amendment to the Constitution of the Federation of Earth Science
Information Partners.  
-   IX.1.2  Proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee at least sixty days prior to any action on the proposed amendment and must contain endorsement of not less than one-fourth of the representatives of the Assembly.  

**Section 2 – Acting on Proposals**

-   IX.2.1  The Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall review the
proposal and render an opinion as to its relationship to the Constitution.  
-   IX.2.2  The Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee shall
circulate the proposed amendment and the opinion of the Constitution and Bylaws Committee to the full membership of the Assembly at least thirty days prior to any action on the amendment by the Assembly.  
-   IX.2.3  The proposed amendment shall be debated at the next meeting of the Assembly.  
-   IX.2.4  The vote shall be by secret ballot. If two-thirds or more of
the entire Assembly vote in favor of the proposed amendment, it shall be adopted.  

**ARTICLE X**
*Transition from WP-ESIP Federation*

**Section 1 – General**

- X.1.1 During the transition period between the ratification of the
Constitution and Bylaws and the first Annual Meeting of the newly formed ESIP Federation created by these Constitution and Bylaws, the transition process described in Article X will supersede the election processes described elsewhere in the Constitution and Bylaws.
-   X.1.2  Following the initial passing of the Constitution and Bylaws
the following persons shall occupy the following ESIP Federation positions:
	- a.  Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole becomes the President  
	- b.  Vice-Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole becomes the Vice  President  
	- c.  Type 1 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 1 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- d.  Type 2 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 2 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- e.  Type 3 ESIP Executive Committee Representative for the WP-ESIPFederation  Committee of the Whole becomes the Category 3 Representative to the Executive  Committee.  
	- f.  The NASA Representative for the WP-ESIP Federation Committee of the Whole  becomes the Category 4 Representative to the Executive Committee.  
	- g.  Chair of WP-ESIP Federation Bylaws and Rules Sub-Committee of the Whole  becomes the Chair of the Constitution and Bylaws Administrative Committee.  
-   X.1.3  All other Committee positions are vacant upon the ratification of this Constitution and Bylaws and will be subject to the election processes described in these Constitution and Bylaws.  

**Recorded Changes to Constitution**

- Amend Article VI, Section 2.2, November 2006 
- Added Article VI, Section 2.3, November 2006
