### 1.2 Members and Member Organization
#### 1.2.1 Eligibility and New Membership
Any entity engaged in activities pursuant to the goals and objectives of ESIP shall be eligible to join.  Specifically, ESIP Partners (ESIPs) will be expected to contribute substantively to the provision of improved products and services based on Earth science.  ESIP contributions and expertise will include, but  will  not  necessarily  be  limited  to,  one  or  more  of  the  following  activities: archiving and distributing remotely sensed and ground based data; the scientific development, provision, and support of data and information products and services; and the development of Earth science applications.  In addition, ESIPs may include major financial or in-kind supporters of ESIP’s activities.
 
New ESIPs may be added to each ESIP category upon application to the Partnership Committee, review and presentation by the Partnership Committee of candidate qualifications to ESIP Assembly, and upon receipt of approval by a majority vote of the entire ESIP  Assembly.
 
### 1.2.2 ESIP Categories
 
There may be multiple categories of ESIPs, whose defining characteristics are as described in the Additional Policies (below).
 
Each category of ESIP shall have rights and obligations defined in the Additional Policies (below).
 
New categories of ESIP may be defined upon recommendation of the Partnership Administrative Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.
Existing Partnership categories may be dropped or modified upon recommendation of the Partnership Committee and upon receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.

### 1.2.3 ESIP Types Described
 
Type 1 – Data and Information Distributors
 
Category 1 ESIPs shall be primarily stewards of Earth science
and related data sets or its supporting information, as well as providers of standardized products derived from those data.
 
Each Category 1 ESIP must designate one Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
 
Category 1 ESIPs, as a group, must elect representatives to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee, Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.
 
Type 2 – Product and Service Providers
 
Category 2 ESIPs shall be engaged principally in the scientific development, provision, and support of data and information products, technology, or services aimed primarily at the Earth science and research communities.
 
Each Category 2 ESIP must designate one Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
 
Category 2 ESIPs, as a group, must elect representatives to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee, Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.
 
Type 3 – Earth Science Application Providers
 
Category 3 ESIPs shall be engaged principally in the development, use or dissemination of Earth science information and applications for the purpose of commercial use, decision support, outreach, advocacy, or education.
 
Each Category 3 ESIP must designate one Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
 
Category 3 ESIPs, as a group, must elect representatives to                                                   serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee, Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.
 
Type 4 – ESIP Federation Sponsors
 
Category 4 ESIPs shall be major financial or in-kind supporters of ESIP Federation activities.
 
Each Category 4 ESIP shall have the right to designate one Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
 
Each Category 4 ESIP may send one representative as a non-voting member to Board and Finance and Appropriations Committee meetings.
 
Type 5 – ESIP Federation Supporters
 
Category 5 ESIPs shall be non-voting financial or in-kind supporters of ESIP Federation activities.
 
### 1.2.4 Ending a Membership
 
Any ESIP member may leave ESIP voluntarily by submitting a letter of resignation to the Chair of the Partnership Committee.
 
Any ESIP member may be designated as Inactive by the Partnership Committee under the following conditions: 
ESIP member has not attended a General Assembly meeting, nor designated a proxy, for a period of four (4) consecutive meetings; and,
By the discretion of the Partnership Committee for any unusual circumstances. A review of this action by the Board can be requested by the affected ESIP member. In this case, a majority vote by the Board is binding.
Inactive status may be designated by the Partnership Committee to any ESIP member that meets the above criteria retroactively when this bylaw comes into effect.
 
Any ESIP member designated by the Partnership Committee as Inactive shall be notified by email or other means of their status. A good faith effort must be made to contact the ESIP member to notify them of their change in status.
 
Any ESIP member designated as Inactive may be restored to Active status by resuming participation in the business of the Federation through attending a General Assembly meeting directly or by proxy, and/or a petition to the Partnership Committee stating reasons for inactivity.
 
If an Inactive ESIP member does not restore to Active status after a period of one (1) year from the date of their notification, ESIP concerned may be removed from ESIP by a majority vote of the Partnership Committee. After removal, application as a new ESIP member to the Partnership Committee must be made.
 
Any ESIP member may be removed from ESIP for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP’s goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any ESIP member to the Chair of the Partnership Committee. The Partnership Committee will notify the ESIP member concerned and ask for comment in its defense. The Partnership Committee will then consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned ESIP member in writing to the Chair of the Governance Committee.  The Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the recommendation for removal receives approval by two-thirds of the Representatives, ESIP member concerned will be removed from ESIP.
