### 1.3 Corporate Organization

#### 1.3.1 ESIP Board of Directors
Part 1 - ESIP Bylaws
ESIP Bylaws describe all duties and responsibilities of the ESIP Board. The Board is bound by these bylaws, not by any additional policies or procedures.
Part 2 - Policies and Procedures and the Bylaws
Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document can supercede the ESIP Bylaws. Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document is meant to amplify or constrain ESIP Directors from their roles and responsibilities as outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.
 
#### 1.3.2 ESIP Volunteer Leadership: President and Vice President
 
Part 1 –  Definition
 
Volunteer leaders of ESIP shall be a President and Vice President who shall be Representatives of the Assembly elected by secret ballot.
 
Part 2 –  Duties
 
The duty of the volunteer leaders is to coordinate the activities of ESIP member volunteers. Leaders who are also members of the Board of Directors have duties outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.
 
The  President  shall  preside  at  meetings  of  the  Assembly  and  meetings of the Program Committee.
 
The Vice President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and meetings of the Program Committee in the absence of the President.
 
All volunteer leaders may stand for re-election except as stated in Policy III.
 
Part 3 Nominating Committee: Electing Volunteer Leaders
 
There shall be a Nominating Committee composed of five (5) members who shall be selected by the President and approved by the Board at the second Board Meeting after the Annual Meeting.
 
The Nominating Committee shall have at least one representative from ESIP Partnership Categories 1 through 3 as defined in Article I of these Policies and Procedures. 
 
The Committee shall nominate one or more candidates for each elective office, to be announced to the General Assembly prior to the election, at which time additional nominations may be made.
 
Additional nominations are encouraged, and can be made by at least two ESIP Member Representatives.
 
Part 3.1 Nominating Committee: ESIP prize nominations
 
The Nominating Committee will prepare nominations for ESIP Prizes at the request of the President.
 
Part 4 Replacing Elected Volunteer Leaders
 
If the President is unable to continue in office, the Vice President shall take over as President, and a special election shall be held to elect a new Vice President.
 
In the event that both the President and Vice President are unable to continue in office, a special election shall be held as described in Policy III, Section 1.
 
Any elected volunteer leader may be removed from office for conduct which in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or which is destructive to ESIP’s goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any elected volunteer leader to the Chair of the Governance Committee. The Governance Committee will notify the leader concerned and ask for comment. The Governance Committee will then consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned leader in writing to the Assembly. The Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the recommendation for removal receives approval by two- thirds of the Representatives, the leader concerned shall be declared unable to continue in office.

#### 1.3.3 Program Committee
 
Program Committee shall consist of the Elected Volunteer Leaders of the Assembly and the Chairs of all Committees.
 
The Program Committee will meet as needed at the discretion of the President to conduct the business of ESIP and address issues that may arise between meetings of the Assembly.
 
Meetings of the Program Committee also may be called by petition endorsed by at least three of the Program Committee members with at least seven days’ notice.
 
The Program Committee will have the authority with respect to appropriations as described in Section 4.
 
The Program Committee shall report on its activities at each meeting of the Assembly.
 
The Program Committee shall ensure that mechanisms are
provided for notifying all ESIPs of official ESIP Federation business.
 
#### 1.3.4 Assembly Meetings
 
ESIP shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Assembly of Representatives which shall be called by the Board.
 
Additional meetings of the Assembly may be called the  Board.
 
 
#### 1.3.5 Administrative Committees
Part 1 – General
 
In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board, the Chair of the Committee shall be elected by simple majority of a secret ballot of the Assembly.
 
In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board, three Administrative Committee members in addition to the Chair shall be elected by simple majority of a secret ballot of the the Type Caucuses in the Assembly. The Chair of each Committee will have the authority to appoint one additional individual to address deficiencies in the way that membership of a Committee represents the goals and activities of ESIP. The Assembly will also have the authority to appoint one additional member to each Administrative Committee for the same reason.
 
If any member of an Administrative Committee, other than the President or Vice President, leaves office before the end of the normal term, the Chairman of the ESIP Board shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the remainder of that term.
 
Any Chair of any Administrative Committee may be removed from office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP’s goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any Chair to the ESIP President of the Assembly. The President will notify the Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Board will then consider the recommendation and, if the recommendation for removal receives approval by a simple majority of the Board, the Chair concerned shall be declared ineligible to continue in office.
 
In the event that the elected Chair of an Administrative
Committee is unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Board Chair shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the remainder of that term.
 
Part 2 – Governance Committee
 
The Governance Committee shall report its work at each meeting of the Assembly.
 
Part 3 – Finance and Appropriations Committee
 
The Finance and Appropriations Committee may not include Volunteer Leaders of the Assembly among its members.
 
All financial resources of ESIP shall be considered by the Finance and Appropriations Committee, for approval by the Board.
 
As a general courtesy from the Board, the Program Committee may authorize annual expenditures that total less than 10% of the annual ESIP Federation financial resources at its discretion without approval by the Finance and Appropriations Committee or the Assembly. The Program Committee shall submit an annual report of its past year’s expenditures to the Finance and Appropriations Committee prior to each Annual Meeting.
 
Proposals for the expenditure of ESIP Federation financial resources shall be submitted in writing to the Chair of the Finance and Appropriations Committee.
 
Upon receipt of a proposal, the Finance and Appropriations Committee will promptly notify the Assembly that proposals are under review. The Finance and Appropriations Committee will assure that appropriate, timely reviews of the proposals are carried out and then forward its recommendations to the Program Committee for further review. If the Program Committee also recommends funding, appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds upon approval by the Board. Alternatively, the Finance and Appropriations Committee may submit proposals to the Board for review. If the Board recommends funding, appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds.
 
Category 4 ESIPs, as a group, may send one representative as a non-voting observer to Finance and Appropriations Committee meetings.
 
The Finance and Appropriations Committee will report on its actions at each Meeting of the Assembly and submit an Annual Finance Report and Proposed Budget for the coming year at each Annual Meeting of the Assembly.
 
In the case of NASA resources allocated to Federation-wide activities, the appropriate action to be taken to allocate funds will be to make recommendations to NASA on the expenditures.
 
Part 4 – Partnership Committee
 
The Partnership Committee shall receive in writing from each applicant the nature of the organization, its history, products, and services, and their expected benefits and contributions to ESIP.
 
The Partnership Committee shall consider applications promptly based on their merit and immediately inform the applicant of its decision either to reject the application or to recommend the application to the Assembly.
 
The Partnership Committee shall ensure that the application is circulated to the Assembly at least thirty days prior to the election.
 
If the Partnership Committee recommends approval of an
application to join ESIP, it will also recommend to the Assembly the appropriate ESIP category for each candidate.
 
If the Partnership Committee rejects an application, the Partnership Committee shall notify the applicant of its right to appeal to the Assembly in writing.
 
The Committee shall report on its work at each Meeting of the Assembly.

#### 1.3.6 Standing Committees, Working Groups and Clusters
 
Part 1 – General
 
Standing Committees are created by amendment of the Policies and Procedures to include a new Section in Bylaw V. Proposals to amend the Policies and Procedures to create a new Standing Committee must state the name and general activities and responsibilities of the proposed Standing Committee.
 
Each Standing Committee shall have a Chair elected by simple majority of a secret ballot of the Assembly. Each Standing Committees shall have a Vice Chair elected by a simple majority of the members of the Committee.
 
Standing Committees shall each year hold at least one physical meeting. All ESIPs will be notified not less than four weeks in advance of the meeting date.
 
Standing Committees shall report program and/or project activity to the Assembly at least quarterly.
 
Any Chair or Vice Chair of any Standing Committee may be removed from office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP’s goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any Chair or Vice Chair of a Standing Committee in writing to the President of the Assembly. The President will notify the Chair or Vice Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Program Committee will then consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned Chair or Vice Chair in writing to the Assembly. The Program Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the recommendation for removal receives approval by two-thirds of the Representatives, the Chair or Vice Chair concerned shall be declared unable to continue in office.
 
Any Standing Committee may be removed if its activities are no longer contributing to the goals of ESIP by amendment of the Policies and Procedures.
 
In the event that the elected Chair of a Standing Committee is unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Program Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the remainder of that term.
 
Part 2 – Standing Committee for Earth Science Products and Services
 
ESIP shall include a Standing Committee on Earth Science Products and Services. Its roles are:
 
a. To encourage the development, use and improvement of best science practices to ensure the quality, usability, and breadth of data and resultant information, products, and services;
 
b. To provide a Federation-wide forum for defining, developing and evaluating requirements for Federation Earth science products; and
 
c. To provide a Federation-wide forum for defining, developing and evaluating requirements for product services and user services.
 
Part 3 - Standing Committee for Information Technology and Interoperability
 
ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Information Technology and Interoperability. Its roles are:
 
a. To provide a forum and resource for interoperability and new
technology transfer, development, and infusion that will improve Earth science data, information, and knowledge;
 
b. To encourage the use of best information technology practices to ensure the quality, usability, and breadth of Earth science data, information, knowledge, products and services; and
 
c. To ensure that data, information and services can be readily
discovered, exchanged and integrated through the use of interoperability standards and protocols.
 
Part 4 – Standing Committee for Data Stewardship
 
ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Data Stewardship. Its roles are:
 
a. To develop, evolve, foster, and adopt best practices and standards that ensure continued and reliable information content, quality, and usability of Earth system science data for as long as they are deemed to be of value.
 
b. To facilitate the long-term preservation and stewardship of Earth system science data.
 
c. To facilitate reference to and access to Earth system science data.
 
Part 5 - Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies
 
ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies. Its roles are:
 
a. To encourage and promote research and development of semantic technologies in support of Earth science data management, data discovery, data dissemination and data analysis
 
b. To collaborate with ESIP members, working groups, clusters, and standing committees to identify semantic methods and tools that support the adoption of semantic technologies within ESIP and across its member organizations.
 
c. To foster sharing and reuse of ontologies and controlled vocabularies within ESIP and its member organizations.
 
d. To provide a collaborative environment for the development of ontology-based standards and controlled vocabularies.
 
e. To maintain a long-term agenda and roadmap for integration and evaluation of semantic projects within ESIP.
 
f. To collaborate with external groups and agencies, including international organizations, on behalf of ESIP in regards to semantic technologies and furthering the aforementioned roles.
 
Part 6 - Standing Committee for Education
 
ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for
Education. Its purpose is to make accessible to educators and learners at all levels in both formal and informal educational contexts the Earth science data, information, tools, and curricula available within ESIP. Its roles are:
 
a. To promote and facilitate the development and dissemination of Earth science educational products, information, and tools to a broad user community using the wealth of Earth science data and expertise available in ESIP.
 
b. To promote and facilitate the collaboration of multiple ESIP’s to develop educational applications of Earth science data products, information, and tools
 
c. To provide a central organization for ESIP Federation educational materials to facilitate and standardize dissemination/distribution
 
d. To develop collaborative relationships with other organizations involved in educational activities
 
#### 1.3.7 Working Groups
Part 1 – General
 
Working Groups are created by resolution of the Assembly or by simple majority vote of a Committee.
 
Each Working Group shall have a Chair elected by a simple majority of the Assembly or Committee that created the Working Group.
 
All ESIPs will be notified promptly by the Assembly or
Committee that created the Working Group of the Working Group’s goals, activities, and expected duration.
 
Individuals from all ESIPs and from outside the Federation will be allowed to participate in any Working Group. However, only the designated ESIP Representative as described in Bylaw I can vote.
 
Due notice of all Working Group meetings and teleconferences shall be given to all ESIPs.
 
Working Groups may be required to report on their activities at each meeting of the Assembly, in a form agreed by the Assembly.
 
In the event that the elected Chair of a Working Group is
unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Executive
Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the remainder of that term.
 
#### 1.3.8 Clusters
Part 1 – General
 
ESIP Federation Clusters may be established by any group of ESIP members by reporting the name and activities of the Cluster to the Vice President of the Assembly.
 
Clusters may be asked by the Vice President to report on their activities at any meeting of the Assembly.
