### 1.6 Record Maintenance
Purpose
The purpose of this Policy is to ensure that necessary records and documents of are adequately protected and maintained and to ensure that records that are no longer needed by the Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP) or are of no value are discarded at the proper time. This Policy is also for the purpose of aiding employees of ESIP in understanding their obligations in retaining electronic documents - including e-mail, Web files, text files, sound and movie files, PDF documents, and all Microsoft Office or other formatted files.
Policy
This Policy represents the ESIP’s policy regarding the retention and disposal of records and the retention and disposal of electronic documents.
Administration
Attached as Appendix A is a Record Retention Schedule that is approved as the initial maintenance, retention and disposal schedule for physical records of ESIP and the retention and disposal of electronic documents.  The {Insert Title of Policy Administrator} (the “Administrator”) is the officer in charge of the administration of this Policy and the implementation of processes and procedures to ensure that the Record Retention Schedule is followed.  The Administrator is also authorized to: make modifications to the Record Retention Schedule from time to time to ensure that it is in compliance with local, state and federal laws and includes the appropriate document and record categories for ESIP; monitor local, state and federal laws affecting record retention; annually review the record retention and disposal program; and monitor compliance with this Policy.
Suspension of Record Disposal In Event of Litigation or Claims
In the event ESIP is served with any subpoena or request for documents or any employee becomes aware of a governmental investigation or audit concerning ESIP or the commencement of any litigation against or concerning ESIP, such employee shall inform the Administrator and any further disposal of documents shall be suspended until such time as the Administrator, with the advice of counsel, determines otherwise. The Administrator shall take such steps as is necessary to promptly inform all staff of any suspension in the further disposal of documents.
Applicability
This Policy applies to all physical records generated in the course of ESIP’s operation, including both original documents and reproductions.  It also applies to the electronic documents described above.
