ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.3 Corporate Organization.md, before:

Section 1 -- ESIP Board of Directors
------------------------------------

### **Part 1** -- **ESIP Bylaws**

1.1.1 [ESIP Bylaws](https://esip-all.slack.com/files/brucec/F45FXBN1Y/amended_and_restated_bylaws_of_fesip__12-02-16_.pdf) describe duties and responsibilities of the ESIP
Board.

### **Part 2** -- **Policies and Procedures and the Bylaws**

1.2.1 Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document can supercede the ESIP
Bylaws. Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document is meant to
amplify or constrain ESIP Directors from their roles and
responsibilities as outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.

Section 2 -- ESIP Volunteer Leadership: President and Vice President
--------------------------------------------------------------------

**Part 1 -- Definition**

2.1.1 Volunteer leaders of ESIP shall be a President and Vice President
who shall be Representatives of the Assembly elected by secret ballot.

**Part 2 -- Duties**

2.2.1 The duty of the volunteer leaders is to coordinate the activities
of ESIP member volunteers. Leaders who are also members of the Board of
Directors have duties outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.

2.2.2 The President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and
meetings of the Program Committee.

2.2.3 The Vice President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and
meetings of the Program Committee in the absence of the President.

2.2.4 All volunteer leaders may stand for re-election.

**Part 3 -- Nominating Committee: Electing Volunteer Leaders**

2.3.1 There shall be a Nominating Committee composed of five (5) members
who shall be selected by the President and approved by the Board at the
second Board Meeting after the Annual Meeting.

2.3.2 The Nominating Committee shall have at least one representative
from ESIP Partnership Types 1 through 3 as defined in [Policy and Procedure 1.3
Section 3](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/1.0%20Corporate/ESIP%20P%26P%201.2%20Members%20and%20Member%20Organizations.md) of these Policies and Procedures. One of the
Nominating Committee members shall be an Early Career member, defined as a
person no later than five years beyond their most recent degree, and one
other member who may be external to ESIP.

2.3.3 The Committee shall nominate one or more candidates for each
elective office, to be announced to the General Assembly prior to the
election, at which time additional nominations may be made.

2.3.4 Additional nominations are encouraged, and can be made by at least
two ESIP Member Representatives.

**Part 4 Nominating Committee: ESIP prize nominations**

2.4.1 The Nominating Committee will prepare nominations for ESIP Prizes
at the request of the President.

**Part 5 -- Replacing Elected Volunteer Leaders**

2.5.1 If the President is unable to continue in office, the Vice
President shall take over as President, and a special election shall be
held to elect a new Vice President.

2.5.2 In the event that both the President and Vice President are unable
to continue in office, a special election shall be held as described in
Policy III, Section 1.

2.5.3 Any elected volunteer leader may be removed from office for
conduct which in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect
adversely its reputation, or which is destructive to ESIP's goals and
activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of
any elected volunteer leader to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
The Governance Committee will notify the leader concerned and ask for
comment. The Governance Committee will then consider the recommendation
and, if approved, will present its recommendation for removal with the
comments from the concerned leader in writing to the Assembly. The
Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the
recommendation for removal receives approval by two- thirds of the
Representatives, the leader concerned shall be declared unable to
continue in office.

Section 3 -- Program Committee
------------------------------

3.1 Program Committee shall consist of the Elected Volunteer Leaders of
the Assembly and the Chairs of all Committees.

3.2 The Program Committee will meet as needed at the discretion of the
President to conduct the business of ESIP and address issues that may
arise between meetings of the Assembly.

3.3 Meetings of the Program Committee also may be called by petition
endorsed by at least three of the Program Committee members with at
least seven days' notice.

3.4 The Program Committee will have the authority with respect to
appropriations as described in Section 4.

3.5 The Program Committee shall report on its activities at each meeting
of the Assembly.

3.6 The Program Committee shall ensure that mechanisms are

provided for notifying all ESIPs of official ESIP business.

Section 4 -- Assembly Meetings
------------------------------

4.1 ESIP shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Assembly of Representatives
which shall be called by the Board. Rules for announcing and holding
ESIP Assembly meetings are included in the ESIP Bylaws.

4.2 Additional meetings of the Assembly may be called by the Board.

Section 5 -- Administrative Committees
--------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

5.1.1 In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board, the
Chair of the Committee shall be elected by simple majority of a secret
ballot of the Assembly.

5.1.2 In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board,
three Administrative Committee members in addition to the Chair shall be
elected by simple majority of a secret ballot of the the Type Caucuses
in the Assembly. The Chair of each Committee will have the authority to
appoint one additional individual to address deficiencies in the way
that membership of a Committee represents the goals and activities of
ESIP. The Assembly will also have the authority to appoint one
additional member to each Administrative Committee for the same reason.

5.1.3 If any member of an Administrative Committee, other than the
President or Vice President, leaves office before the end of the normal
term, the ESIP Board Chair shall appoint an eligible replacement to
serve out the remainder of that term.

5.1.4 Any Chair of any Administrative Committee may be removed from
office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or
to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP's
goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend
removal of any Chair to the ESIP President of the Assembly. The
President will notify the Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Board
will then consider the recommendation and, if the recommendation for
removal receives approval by a simple majority of the Board, the Chair
concerned shall be declared ineligible to continue in office.

5.1.5 In the event that the elected Chair of an Administrative

Committee is unable to continue to execute the duties of that office,
the Board Chair shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

### **Part 2 -- Governance Committee**

5.2.1 The Governance Committee shall consider all amendments to the
Policies and Procedures. This committee will also respond to any Member
Organization requests for clarification of the Policies and Procedures
document.

### **Part 3 -- Finance Committee**

5.3.1 The Finance Committee may not include the ESIP President or ESIP
Vice President of the Assembly among its members.

5.3.2 All financial resources of ESIP shall be considered by the Finance
Committee, for approval by the Board.

5.3.3 As a general courtesy from the Board, the Program Committee may
authorize annual expenditures that total less than 10% of the annual
ESIP financial resources at its discretion without approval by the
Finance Committee or the Assembly. The Program Committee shall submit an
annual report of its past year's expenditures to the Finance Committee
prior to each Annual Meeting.

5.3.4 Proposals for the expenditure of ESIP financial resources shall be
submitted in writing to the Chair of the Finance Committee.

5.3.5 Upon receipt of a proposal, the Finance Committee will promptly
notify the Assembly that proposals are under review. The Finance
Committee will assure that appropriate, timely reviews of the proposals
are carried out and then forward its recommendations to the Program
Committee for further review. If the Program Committee also recommends
funding, appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds upon
approval by the Board. Alternatively, the Finance Committee may submit
proposals to the Board for review. If the Board recommends funding,
appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds.

5.3.6 Category 4 ESIPs, as a group, may send one representative as a
non-voting observer to Finance Committee meetings.

5.3.7 The Finance Committee will report on its actions at each Meeting
of the Assembly and submit an Annual Finance Report and Proposed Budget
for the coming year at each Annual Meeting of the Assembly.

### **Part 4 -- Partnership Committee**

5.4.1 The Partnership Committee shall receive in writing from each
applicant the nature of the organization, its history, products, and
services, and their expected benefits and contributions to ESIP.

5.4.2 The Partnership Committee shall consider applications promptly
based on their merit and immediately inform the applicant of its
decision either to reject the application or to recommend the
application to the Assembly.

5.4.3 The Partnership Committee shall ensure that the application is
circulated to the Assembly at least thirty days prior to the election.

5.4.4 If the Partnership Committee recommends approval of an

application to join ESIP, it will also recommend to the Assembly the
appropriate ESIP category for each candidate.

5.4.5 If the Partnership Committee rejects an application, the
Partnership Committee shall notify the applicant of its right to appeal
to the Assembly in writing.

Section 6 -- Standing Committees, Working Groups and Clusters
-------------------------------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

6.1.1 Standing Committees are created by amendment of the Policies and
Procedures to include a new Section in Bylaw V. Proposals to amend the
Policies and Procedures to create a new Standing Committee must state
the name and general activities and responsibilities of the proposed
Standing Committee.

6.1.2 Each Standing Committee shall have a Chair elected by simple
majority of a secret ballot of the Assembly. Each Standing Committees
shall have a Vice Chair elected by a simple majority of the members of
the Committee.

6.1.3 Standing Committees shall each year hold at least one physical
meeting. All ESIPs will be notified not less than four weeks in advance
of the meeting date.

6.1.4 Standing Committees shall report program and/or project activity
to the Assembly at least quarterly.

6.1.5 Any Chair or Vice Chair of any Standing Committee may be removed
from office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure
ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to
ESIP's goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may
recommend removal of any Chair or Vice Chair of a Standing Committee in
writing to the President of the Assembly. The President will notify the
Chair or Vice Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Program Committee
will then consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its
recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned Chair or
Vice Chair in writing to the Assembly. The Program Committee will then
petition the Representatives. If the recommendation for removal receives
approval by two-thirds of the Representatives, the Chair or Vice Chair
concerned shall be declared unable to continue in office.

6.1.6 Any Standing Committee may be removed if its activities are no
longer contributing to the goals of ESIP by amendment of the Policies
and Procedures.

6.1.7 In the event that the elected Chair of a Standing Committee is
unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Program
Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

### **Part 2 -- OPEN **

NOTE: The Products and Services Committee was retired on a unanimous
vote of the ESIP Program Committee, July 11, 2017. This Part can be
reused as needed in the future.

### **Part 3 -- Standing Committee for Information Technology and Interoperability**

6.3.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Information Technology
and Interoperability. Its roles are:

a\. To provide a forum and resource for interoperability and new

technology transfer, development, and infusion that will improve Earth
science data, information, and knowledge;

b\. To encourage the use of best information technology practices to
ensure the quality, usability, and breadth of Earth science data,
information, knowledge, products and services; and

c\. To ensure that data, information and services can be readily

discovered, exchanged and integrated through the use of interoperability
standards and protocols.

### **Part 4 -- Standing Committee for Data Stewardship**

6.4.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Data Stewardship. Its
roles are:

a\. To develop, evolve, foster, and adopt best practices and standards
that ensure continued and reliable information content, quality, and
usability of Earth system science data for as long as they are deemed to
be of value.

b\. To facilitate the long-term preservation and stewardship of Earth
system science data.

c\. To facilitate reference to and access to Earth system science data.

### **Part 5 -- Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies**

6.5.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies.
Its roles are:

a\. To encourage and promote research and development of semantic
technologies in support of Earth science data management, data
discovery, data dissemination and data analysis

b\. To collaborate with ESIP members, working groups, clusters, and
standing committees to identify semantic methods and tools that support
the adoption of semantic technologies within ESIP and across its member
organizations.

c\. To foster sharing and reuse of ontologies and controlled vocabularies
within ESIP and its member organizations.

d\. To provide a collaborative environment for the development of
ontology-based standards and controlled vocabularies.

e\. To maintain a long-term agenda and roadmap for integration and
evaluation of semantic projects within ESIP.

f\. To collaborate with external groups and agencies, including
international organizations, on behalf of ESIP in regards to semantic
technologies and furthering the aforementioned roles.

### **Part 6 -- Standing Committee for Education**

6.6.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for

Education. Its purpose is to make accessible to educators and learners
at all levels in both formal and informal educational contexts the Earth
science data, information, tools, and curricula available within ESIP.
Its roles are:

a\. To promote and facilitate the development and dissemination of Earth
science educational products, information, and tools to a broad user
community using the wealth of Earth science data and expertise available
in ESIP.

b\. To promote and facilitate the collaboration of multiple ESIP's to
develop educational applications of Earth science data products,
information, and tools

c\. To provide a central organization for ESIP educational materials to
facilitate and standardize dissemination/distribution

d\. To develop collaborative relationships with other organizations
involved in educational activities

Section 7 -- Working Groups
---------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

7.1.1 Working Groups are created by resolution of the Assembly or by
simple majority vote of a Committee.

7.1.2 Each Working Group shall have a Chair elected by a simple majority
of the Assembly or Committee that created the Working Group.

7.1.3 All ESIPs will be notified promptly by the Assembly or

Committee that created the Working Group of the Working Group's goals,
activities, and expected duration.

7.1.4 Individuals from all ESIPs and from outside will be allowed to
participate in any Working Group. However, only the designated ESIP
Representative as described in Bylaw I can vote.

7.1.5 Due notice of all Working Group meetings and teleconferences shall
be given to all ESIPs.

7.1.6 In the event that the elected Chair of a Working Group is
unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Executive
Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

Section 8 -- Clusters
---------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

8.1.1 ESIP Clusters may be established by any group of ESIP members by
reporting the name and activities of the Cluster to the Vice President
of the Assembly.

This Policy was revised by the ESIP Board on July 16, 2018.

Commit message:

Added 5.5 -- Meeting Committee
Change requested by: ESIP Program Committee via teleconference on March 12, 2019.
Governance Committee Discussion: Section 5, Part 5, establishing and defining the Meeting Committee, was drafted and discussed by the committee via telecon on March 15, 2019
Board approval: via telecon on April 25, 2019

ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.3 Corporate Organization.md, after:

Section 1 -- ESIP Board of Directors
------------------------------------

### **Part 1** -- **ESIP Bylaws**

1.1.1 [ESIP Bylaws](https://esip-all.slack.com/files/brucec/F45FXBN1Y/amended_and_restated_bylaws_of_fesip__12-02-16_.pdf) describe duties and responsibilities of the ESIP
Board.

### **Part 2** -- **Policies and Procedures and the Bylaws**

1.2.1 Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document can supercede the ESIP
Bylaws. Nothing in the Policies and Procedures document is meant to
amplify or constrain ESIP Directors from their roles and
responsibilities as outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.

Section 2 -- ESIP Volunteer Leadership: President and Vice President
--------------------------------------------------------------------

**Part 1 -- Definition**

2.1.1 Volunteer leaders of ESIP shall be a President and Vice President
who shall be Representatives of the Assembly elected by secret ballot.

**Part 2 -- Duties**

2.2.1 The duty of the volunteer leaders is to coordinate the activities
of ESIP member volunteers. Leaders who are also members of the Board of
Directors have duties outlined in the ESIP Bylaws.

2.2.2 The President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and
meetings of the Program Committee.

2.2.3 The Vice President shall preside at meetings of the Assembly and
meetings of the Program Committee in the absence of the President.

2.2.4 All volunteer leaders may stand for re-election.

**Part 3 -- Nominating Committee: Electing Volunteer Leaders**

2.3.1 There shall be a Nominating Committee composed of five (5) members
who shall be selected by the President and approved by the Board at the
second Board Meeting after the Annual Meeting.

2.3.2 The Nominating Committee shall have at least one representative
from ESIP Partnership Types 1 through 3 as defined in [Policy and Procedure 1.3
Section 3](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/1.0%20Corporate/ESIP%20P%26P%201.2%20Members%20and%20Member%20Organizations.md) of these Policies and Procedures. One of the
Nominating Committee members shall be an Early Career member, defined as a
person no later than five years beyond their most recent degree, and one
other member who may be external to ESIP.

2.3.3 The Committee shall nominate one or more candidates for each
elective office, to be announced to the General Assembly prior to the
election, at which time additional nominations may be made.

2.3.4 Additional nominations are encouraged, and can be made by at least
two ESIP Member Representatives.

**Part 4 Nominating Committee: ESIP prize nominations**

2.4.1 The Nominating Committee will prepare nominations for ESIP Prizes
at the request of the President.

**Part 5 -- Replacing Elected Volunteer Leaders**

2.5.1 If the President is unable to continue in office, the Vice
President shall take over as President, and a special election shall be
held to elect a new Vice President.

2.5.2 In the event that both the President and Vice President are unable
to continue in office, a special election shall be held as described in
Policy III, Section 1.

2.5.3 Any elected volunteer leader may be removed from office for
conduct which in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect
adversely its reputation, or which is destructive to ESIP's goals and
activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of
any elected volunteer leader to the Chair of the Governance Committee.
The Governance Committee will notify the leader concerned and ask for
comment. The Governance Committee will then consider the recommendation
and, if approved, will present its recommendation for removal with the
comments from the concerned leader in writing to the Assembly. The
Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the
recommendation for removal receives approval by two- thirds of the
Representatives, the leader concerned shall be declared unable to
continue in office.

Section 3 -- Program Committee
------------------------------

3.1 Program Committee shall consist of the Elected Volunteer Leaders of
the Assembly and the Chairs of all Committees.

3.2 The Program Committee will meet as needed at the discretion of the
President to conduct the business of ESIP and address issues that may
arise between meetings of the Assembly.

3.3 Meetings of the Program Committee also may be called by petition
endorsed by at least three of the Program Committee members with at
least seven days' notice.

3.4 The Program Committee will have the authority with respect to
appropriations as described in Section 4.

3.5 The Program Committee shall report on its activities at each meeting
of the Assembly.

3.6 The Program Committee shall ensure that mechanisms are

provided for notifying all ESIPs of official ESIP business.

Section 4 -- Assembly Meetings
------------------------------

4.1 ESIP shall hold an Annual Meeting of the Assembly of Representatives
which shall be called by the Board. Rules for announcing and holding
ESIP Assembly meetings are included in the ESIP Bylaws.

4.2 Additional meetings of the Assembly may be called by the Board.

Section 5 -- Administrative Committees
--------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

5.1.1 In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board, the
Chair of the Committee shall be elected by simple majority of a secret
ballot of the Assembly.

5.1.2 In the case of Administrative Committees other than the Board,
three Administrative Committee members in addition to the Chair shall be
elected by simple majority of a secret ballot of the the Type Caucuses
in the Assembly. The Chair of each Committee will have the authority to
appoint one additional individual to address deficiencies in the way
that membership of a Committee represents the goals and activities of
ESIP. The Assembly will also have the authority to appoint one
additional member to each Administrative Committee for the same reason.

5.1.3 If any member of an Administrative Committee, other than the
President or Vice President, leaves office before the end of the normal
term, the ESIP Board Chair shall appoint an eligible replacement to
serve out the remainder of that term.

5.1.4 Any Chair of any Administrative Committee may be removed from
office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or
to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP's
goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend
removal of any Chair to the ESIP President of the Assembly. The
President will notify the Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Board
will then consider the recommendation and, if the recommendation for
removal receives approval by a simple majority of the Board, the Chair
concerned shall be declared ineligible to continue in office.

5.1.5 In the event that the elected Chair of an Administrative

Committee is unable to continue to execute the duties of that office,
the Board Chair shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

### **Part 2 -- Governance Committee**

5.2.1 The Governance Committee shall consider all amendments to the
Policies and Procedures. This committee will also respond to any Member
Organization requests for clarification of the Policies and Procedures
document.

### **Part 3 -- Finance Committee**

5.3.1 The Finance Committee may not include the ESIP President or ESIP
Vice President of the Assembly among its members.

5.3.2 All financial resources of ESIP shall be considered by the Finance
Committee, for approval by the Board.

5.3.3 As a general courtesy from the Board, the Program Committee may
authorize annual expenditures that total less than 10% of the annual
ESIP financial resources at its discretion without approval by the
Finance Committee or the Assembly. The Program Committee shall submit an
annual report of its past year's expenditures to the Finance Committee
prior to each Annual Meeting.

5.3.4 Proposals for the expenditure of ESIP financial resources shall be
submitted in writing to the Chair of the Finance Committee.

5.3.5 Upon receipt of a proposal, the Finance Committee will promptly
notify the Assembly that proposals are under review. The Finance
Committee will assure that appropriate, timely reviews of the proposals
are carried out and then forward its recommendations to the Program
Committee for further review. If the Program Committee also recommends
funding, appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds upon
approval by the Board. Alternatively, the Finance Committee may submit
proposals to the Board for review. If the Board recommends funding,
appropriate actions will be taken to allocate the funds.

5.3.6 Category 4 ESIPs, as a group, may send one representative as a
non-voting observer to Finance Committee meetings.

5.3.7 The Finance Committee will report on its actions at each Meeting
of the Assembly and submit an Annual Finance Report and Proposed Budget
for the coming year at each Annual Meeting of the Assembly.

### **Part 4 -- Partnership Committee**

5.4.1 The Partnership Committee shall receive in writing from each
applicant the nature of the organization, its history, products, and
services, and their expected benefits and contributions to ESIP.

5.4.2 The Partnership Committee shall consider applications promptly
based on their merit and immediately inform the applicant of its
decision either to reject the application or to recommend the
application to the Assembly.

5.4.3 The Partnership Committee shall ensure that the application is
circulated to the Assembly at least thirty days prior to the election.

5.4.4 If the Partnership Committee recommends approval of an

application to join ESIP, it will also recommend to the Assembly the
appropriate ESIP category for each candidate.

5.4.5 If the Partnership Committee rejects an application, the
Partnership Committee shall notify the applicant of its right to appeal
to the Assembly in writing.

### **Part 5 -- Meeting Committee**

5.5.1 The Meeting Committee shall oversee ESIP's twice annual meetings. This committee will also respond to any meeting feedback.

5.5.2 The Vice President of ESIP will server as the Chair of the Meeting Committee.

5.5.3 Membership to the committee is open to any ESIP participant who wishes to contribute.

Section 6 -- Standing Committees, Working Groups and Clusters
-------------------------------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

6.1.1 Standing Committees are created by amendment of the Policies and
Procedures to include a new Section in Bylaw V. Proposals to amend the
Policies and Procedures to create a new Standing Committee must state
the name and general activities and responsibilities of the proposed
Standing Committee.

6.1.2 Each Standing Committee shall have a Chair elected by simple
majority of a secret ballot of the Assembly. Each Standing Committees
shall have a Vice Chair elected by a simple majority of the members of
the Committee.

6.1.3 Standing Committees shall each year hold at least one physical
meeting. All ESIPs will be notified not less than four weeks in advance
of the meeting date.

6.1.4 Standing Committees shall report program and/or project activity
to the Assembly at least quarterly.

6.1.5 Any Chair or Vice Chair of any Standing Committee may be removed
from office for conduct that in any way tends to substantially injure
ESIP or to affect adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to
ESIP's goals and activities. Any Representative to the Assembly may
recommend removal of any Chair or Vice Chair of a Standing Committee in
writing to the President of the Assembly. The President will notify the
Chair or Vice Chair concerned and ask for comment. The Program Committee
will then consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its
recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned Chair or
Vice Chair in writing to the Assembly. The Program Committee will then
petition the Representatives. If the recommendation for removal receives
approval by two-thirds of the Representatives, the Chair or Vice Chair
concerned shall be declared unable to continue in office.

6.1.6 Any Standing Committee may be removed if its activities are no
longer contributing to the goals of ESIP by amendment of the Policies
and Procedures.

6.1.7 In the event that the elected Chair of a Standing Committee is
unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Program
Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

### **Part 2 -- OPEN **

NOTE: The Products and Services Committee was retired on a unanimous
vote of the ESIP Program Committee, July 11, 2017. This Part can be
reused as needed in the future.

### **Part 3 -- Standing Committee for Information Technology and Interoperability**

6.3.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Information Technology
and Interoperability. Its roles are:

a\. To provide a forum and resource for interoperability and new

technology transfer, development, and infusion that will improve Earth
science data, information, and knowledge;

b\. To encourage the use of best information technology practices to
ensure the quality, usability, and breadth of Earth science data,
information, knowledge, products and services; and

c\. To ensure that data, information and services can be readily

discovered, exchanged and integrated through the use of interoperability
standards and protocols.

### **Part 4 -- Standing Committee for Data Stewardship**

6.4.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Data Stewardship. Its
roles are:

a\. To develop, evolve, foster, and adopt best practices and standards
that ensure continued and reliable information content, quality, and
usability of Earth system science data for as long as they are deemed to
be of value.

b\. To facilitate the long-term preservation and stewardship of Earth
system science data.

c\. To facilitate reference to and access to Earth system science data.

### **Part 5 -- Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies**

6.5.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for Semantic Technologies.
Its roles are:

a\. To encourage and promote research and development of semantic
technologies in support of Earth science data management, data
discovery, data dissemination and data analysis

b\. To collaborate with ESIP members, working groups, clusters, and
standing committees to identify semantic methods and tools that support
the adoption of semantic technologies within ESIP and across its member
organizations.

c\. To foster sharing and reuse of ontologies and controlled vocabularies
within ESIP and its member organizations.

d\. To provide a collaborative environment for the development of
ontology-based standards and controlled vocabularies.

e\. To maintain a long-term agenda and roadmap for integration and
evaluation of semantic projects within ESIP.

f\. To collaborate with external groups and agencies, including
international organizations, on behalf of ESIP in regards to semantic
technologies and furthering the aforementioned roles.

### **Part 6 -- Standing Committee for Education**

6.6.1 ESIP shall include a Standing Committee for

Education. Its purpose is to make accessible to educators and learners
at all levels in both formal and informal educational contexts the Earth
science data, information, tools, and curricula available within ESIP.
Its roles are:

a\. To promote and facilitate the development and dissemination of Earth
science educational products, information, and tools to a broad user
community using the wealth of Earth science data and expertise available
in ESIP.

b\. To promote and facilitate the collaboration of multiple ESIP's to
develop educational applications of Earth science data products,
information, and tools

c\. To provide a central organization for ESIP educational materials to
facilitate and standardize dissemination/distribution

d\. To develop collaborative relationships with other organizations
involved in educational activities

Section 7 -- Working Groups
---------------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

7.1.1 Working Groups are created by resolution of the Assembly or by
simple majority vote of a Committee.

7.1.2 Each Working Group shall have a Chair elected by a simple majority
of the Assembly or Committee that created the Working Group.

7.1.3 All ESIPs will be notified promptly by the Assembly or

Committee that created the Working Group of the Working Group's goals,
activities, and expected duration.

7.1.4 Individuals from all ESIPs and from outside will be allowed to
participate in any Working Group. However, only the designated ESIP
Representative as described in Bylaw I can vote.

7.1.5 Due notice of all Working Group meetings and teleconferences shall
be given to all ESIPs.

7.1.6 In the event that the elected Chair of a Working Group is
unable to continue to execute the duties of that office, the Executive
Committee shall appoint an eligible replacement to serve out the
remainder of that term.

Section 8 -- Clusters
---------------------

### **Part 1 -- General**

8.1.1 ESIP Clusters may be established by any group of ESIP members by
reporting the name and activities of the Cluster to the Vice President
of the Assembly.

This Policy was revised by the ESIP Board on April 25, 2019.
