ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.4 Policy Approval, Amendments, Administration and Compliance.md, before:

**Policy and Procedure 1.4 - ESIP Policy Approval, Amendments,
Administration and Compliance**

Section 1 \-- Amending the Policies and Procedures
--------------------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- Proposing Amendments**

1.1.1 Any Representative of the Assembly of Representatives may propose
an amendment to the Policies and Procedures of ESIP.

1.1.2 Proposals shall be submitted in writing (e.g., email) to the Chair
of the Governance Committee prior to any action on the proposed amendment.

### **Part 2 -- Acting on Proposals**

1.2.1 The Governance Committee shall review the proposal and render an
opinion as to its relationship to the existing Policies and Procedures.

1.2.2 The Chair of the Governance Committee shall announce the proposed
amendment and the opinion of the Governance Committee to the Board
prior to any action on the amendment by the Board.

1.2.3 The proposed amendment shall be discussed either using
electronic means or at a meeting (e.g., telecon) of the Board.

1.2.4 The vote shall be by a simple majority of the Board on
any official telecon. The Chair of the Governance Committee will then
commit the changes to the document.

1.2.5 All policy changes that will delegate decision-making authority from
the Assembly must be put forward to the Assembly for comment for a 30 day
period and then voted on by the Assembly, either online or in person at the
Annual Meeting.

1.2.6 All policy changes that will delegate decision-making authority from the
Program Committee must be put forward to the Program Committee for comment at
an initial Program Committee meeting and then voted on at the next monthly meeting.

This Policy was revised by the ESIP Board of Directors on January 14, 2019.

Commit message:

Add Part 3 describing process for changes to P&P
Change requested by: ESIP Governance Committee via telecon on April 17, 2018
Governance Committee discussion: Part 3 to this policy was drafted and discussed by the Governance Committee via telecon on May 15, 2018.
Board approval: via telecon on October 23, 2018.

ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.4 Policy Approval, Amendments, Administration and Compliance.md, after:

**Policy and Procedure 1.4 - ESIP Policy Approval, Amendments,
Administration and Compliance**

Section 1 \-- Amending the Policies and Procedures
--------------------------------------------------

### **Part 1 -- Proposing Amendments**

1.1.1 Any Representative of the Assembly of Representatives may propose
an amendment to the Policies and Procedures of ESIP.

1.1.2 Proposals shall be submitted in writing (e.g., email) to the Chair
of the Governance Committee prior to any action on the proposed amendment.

### **Part 2 -- Acting on Proposals**

1.2.1 The Governance Committee shall review the proposal and render an
opinion as to its relationship to the existing Policies and Procedures.

1.2.2 The Chair of the Governance Committee shall announce the proposed
amendment and the opinion of the Governance Committee to the Board
prior to any action on the amendment by the Board.

1.2.3 The proposed amendment shall be discussed either using
electronic means or at a meeting (e.g., telecon) of the Board.

1.2.4 The vote shall be by a simple majority of the Board on
any official telecon. The Chair of the Governance Committee will then
commit the changes to the document.

1.2.5 All policy changes that will delegate decision-making authority from
the Assembly must be put forward to the Assembly for comment for a 30 day
period and then voted on by the Assembly, either online or in person at the
Annual Meeting.

1.2.6 All policy changes that will delegate decision-making authority from the
Program Committee must be put forward to the Program Committee for comment at
an initial Program Committee meeting and then voted on at the next monthly meeting.

### **Part 3 -- Updating Policy and Procedure Documents**

1.3.1 The Governance Committee Chair shall revise the affected Policy and Procedure document as amended.

1.3.2 In the change log for the affected Policy and Procedure, the Chair of the Governance Committee shall note 1) The person requesting the change, 2) The date and method (telecon/face to face meeting) of the Governance Committee discussion of this change and 3) The date and method of the Board approval of this change.

1.3.3 The Chair of the Governance Committee shall modify the revised policy to include the text “This policy was updated on <date>.”, where <date> is the date that the change was committed to the document.

This Policy was revised by the ESIP Board of Directors on January 14, 2019.
