ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.2 Members and Member Organizations.md, before:

**Policy and Procedure 1.2 - ESIP Members and Member Organizations**

**Section 1 -- Eligibility and New Membership**

1.1 Any entity engaged in activities pursuant to the goals and
objectives of ESIP shall be eligible to join. Specifically, ESIP
Partners Organizations (hereafter: ESIP Partners or ESIP Membership
Organizations) will be expected to contribute substantively to the
provision of improved products and services based on Earth science.
ESIP Partner contributions and expertise will include, but will not
necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following activities:
archiving and distributing remotely sensed and in-situ sensed data;
the scientific development, provision, and support of data and
information products and services; and the development of Earth
science applications. In addition, ESIP Partners may include major
financial or in-kind supporters of ESIP's activities.

1.2 New ESIP Partners may be added to each ESIP category upon
application to the Partnership Committee, review and presentation by
the Partnership Committee of candidate qualifications to ESIP
Assembly, and upon receipt of approval by a majority vote of the
entire ESIP Assembly.

**Section 2 -- ESIP Partner Categories**

2.1 There may be multiple categories of ESIP Partners, whose defining
characteristics are as described in the Additional Policies (below).

2.2 Each category of ESIP Partner shall have rights and obligations
defined in the Additional Policies (below).

2.3 New categories for ESIP Partners may be defined upon
recommendation of the Partnership Administrative Committee and upon
receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.

2.4 Existing Partnership categories may be dropped or modified upon
recommendation of the Partnership Committee and upon receiving
approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.

**Section 3 -- ESIP Partner Types Described**

Type 1 -- Data and Information Distributors

3.1.1 Category 1 ESIP Partners shall be primarily stewards of Earth
science and related data sets or its supporting information, as well as
providers of standardized products derived from those data.

3.1.2 Each Category 1 ESIP Partner must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Partnership
Committee.

3.1.3 Category 1 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 2 -- Product and Service Providers

3.2.1 Category 2 ESIP Partners shall be engaged principally in the
scientific development, provision, and support of data and information
products, technology, or services aimed primarily at the Earth science
and research communities.

3.2.2 Each Category 2 ESIP Partners must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance
Committee.

3.2.3 Category 2 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 3 -- Earth Science Application Providers

3.3.1 Category 3 ESIP Partners shall be engaged principally in the
development, use or dissemination of Earth science information and
applications for the purpose of commercial use, decision support,
outreach, advocacy, or education.

3.3.2 Each Category 3 ESIP Partner must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance
Committee.

3.3.3 Category 3 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 4 -- ESIP Sponsors

3.4.1 Category 4 ESIP Partners shall be major financial or in-kind
supporters of ESIP activities.

3.4.2 Each Category 4 ESIP Partner shall have the right to designate one
Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of
the Governance Committee.

3.4.3 Each Category 4 ESIP Partner may send one representative as a
non-voting member to Board and Finance and Appropriations Committee
meetings.

Type 5 -- ESIP Supporters

3.5.1 Category 5 ESIP Partners shall be non-voting financial or in-kind
supporters of ESIP activities.

**Section 4 -- Ending a Membership**

4.1 Any ESIP Member Organization may leave ESIP voluntarily by
submitting a letter of resignation to the Chair of the Partnership
Committee.

4.2 Any ESIP Member Organization may be designated as Inactive by the
Partnership Committee under the following conditions:

4.2.1 ESIP Member Organization has not attended a General Assembly
meeting, nor designated a proxy, for a period of four (4) consecutive
meetings; and,

4.2.2 By the discretion of the Partnership Committee for any unusual
circumstances. A review of this action by the Board can be requested by
the affected ESIP Member Organization. In this case, a majority vote by
the Board is binding.

4.2.3 Inactive status may be designated by the Partnership Committee to
any ESIP Member Organization that meets the above criteria retroactively
when this bylaw comes into effect.

4.3 Any ESIP Member Organization designated by the Partnership Committee
as Inactive shall be notified by email or other means of their status. A
good faith effort must be made to contact the ESIP Member Organization
to notify them of their change in status.

4.4 Any ESIP Member Organization designated as Inactive may be restored
to Active status by resuming participation in the business of ESIP
through attending a General Assembly meeting directly or by proxy,
and/or a petition to the Partnership Committee stating reasons for
inactivity.

4.5 If an inactive ESIP Member Organization does not restore to Active
status after a period of one (1) year from the date of their
notification, the Member Organization concerned may be removed from ESIP
by a majority vote of the Partnership Committee. After removal,
application as a new ESIP Member Organization to the Partnership
Committee must be made.

4.6 Any ESIP Member Organization may be removed from ESIP for conduct
that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect
adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP's goals and
activities (Ref: [ESIP code of
conduct](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Code%20of%20Conduct.md)).
Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any ESIP
Member Organization to the Chair of the Partnership Committee. The
Partnership Committee will notify the ESIP Member Organization concerned
and ask for comment in its defense. The Partnership Committee will then
consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its
recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned ESIP
member in writing to the Chair of the Governance Committee. The
Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the
recommendation for removal receives approval by two-thirds of the
Representatives, ESIP Member Organization concerned will be removed from
ESIP.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.

Commit message:

Revised section 1, paragraph 1.2
Proposed by the ESIP Partnership Committee on August 21st, 2018.
Discussed via telecon by the Governance Committee on August 21, September 18, October 26 and December 18, 2018.
Approved by the ESIP Board of Directors on January 14, 2019.
Presented to and approved by the ESIP Assembly on January 16, 2019.

ESIP Policies and Procedures/1.0 Corporate/ESIP P&P 1.2 Members and Member Organizations.md, after:

**Policy and Procedure 1.2 - ESIP Members and Member Organizations**

**Section 1 -- Eligibility and New Membership**

1.1 Any entity engaged in activities pursuant to the goals and
objectives of ESIP shall be eligible to join. Specifically, ESIP
Partners Organizations (hereafter: ESIP Partners or ESIP Membership
Organizations) will be expected to contribute substantively to the
provision of improved products and services based on Earth science.
ESIP Partner contributions and expertise will include, but will not
necessarily be limited to, one or more of the following activities:
archiving and distributing remotely sensed and in-situ sensed data;
the scientific development, provision, and support of data and
information products and services; and the development of Earth
science applications. In addition, ESIP Partners may include major
financial or in-kind supporters of ESIP's activities.

1.2 New ESIP Partners may be considered for addition to ESIP types through
an application to the Partnership Committee. The Partnership Committee will
review the applications for completeness on a quarterly basis. Any concerns
of the Partnership Committee will be sent to the applicants by the Partnership
Committee Chair. Initial comments, expressed concerns, responses, and
summarized comments by the Partnership Committee will be documented and
available during the open review by the ESIP Assembly, and by the ESIP Board.
Partnership reviewed applications will be made available to the ESIP Assembly
for a one month review and comment period by ESIP staff six weeks before
the next ESIP Board meeting. All comments or concerns expressed by ESIP Assembly
members are to be addressed by ESIP staff with notice to the Partnership Committee.
Any comments or concerns not addressed by ESIP staff should be forwarded to the
Partnership Committee. Following the Assembly comment period, the candidates shall
be added to the ESIP Assembly upon receipt of approval by a majority vote of the ESIP Board.

**Section 2 -- ESIP Partner Categories**

2.1 There may be multiple categories of ESIP Partners, whose defining
characteristics are as described in the Additional Policies (below).

2.2 Each category of ESIP Partner shall have rights and obligations
defined in the Additional Policies (below).

2.3 New categories for ESIP Partners may be defined upon
recommendation of the Partnership Administrative Committee and upon
receiving approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.

2.4 Existing Partnership categories may be dropped or modified upon
recommendation of the Partnership Committee and upon receiving
approval by two-thirds of the entire ESIP Assembly.

**Section 3 -- ESIP Partner Types Described**

Type 1 -- Data and Information Distributors

3.1.1 Category 1 ESIP Partners shall be primarily stewards of Earth
science and related data sets or its supporting information, as well as
providers of standardized products derived from those data.

3.1.2 Each Category 1 ESIP Partner must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Partnership
Committee.

3.1.3 Category 1 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 2 -- Product and Service Providers

3.2.1 Category 2 ESIP Partners shall be engaged principally in the
scientific development, provision, and support of data and information
products, technology, or services aimed primarily at the Earth science
and research communities.

3.2.2 Each Category 2 ESIP Partners must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance
Committee.

3.2.3 Category 2 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 3 -- Earth Science Application Providers

3.3.1 Category 3 ESIP Partners shall be engaged principally in the
development, use or dissemination of Earth science information and
applications for the purpose of commercial use, decision support,
outreach, advocacy, or education.

3.3.2 Each Category 3 ESIP Partner must designate one Representative to
the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of the Governance
Committee.

3.3.3 Category 3 ESIP Partners, as a group, must elect representatives
to serve on each of the following Committees: Governance Committee,
Partnership Committee, and Finance and Appropriations Committee.

Type 4 -- ESIP Sponsors

3.4.1 Category 4 ESIP Partners shall be major financial or in-kind
supporters of ESIP activities.

3.4.2 Each Category 4 ESIP Partner shall have the right to designate one
Representative to the Assembly by submitting the name to the Chair of
the Governance Committee.

3.4.3 Each Category 4 ESIP Partner may send one representative as a
non-voting member to Board and Finance and Appropriations Committee
meetings.

Type 5 -- ESIP Supporters

3.5.1 Category 5 ESIP Partners shall be non-voting financial or in-kind
supporters of ESIP activities.

**Section 4 -- Ending a Membership**

4.1 Any ESIP Member Organization may leave ESIP voluntarily by
submitting a letter of resignation to the Chair of the Partnership
Committee.

4.2 Any ESIP Member Organization may be designated as Inactive by the
Partnership Committee under the following conditions:

4.2.1 ESIP Member Organization has not attended a General Assembly
meeting, nor designated a proxy, for a period of four (4) consecutive
meetings; and,

4.2.2 By the discretion of the Partnership Committee for any unusual
circumstances. A review of this action by the Board can be requested by
the affected ESIP Member Organization. In this case, a majority vote by
the Board is binding.

4.2.3 Inactive status may be designated by the Partnership Committee to
any ESIP Member Organization that meets the above criteria retroactively
when this bylaw comes into effect.

4.3 Any ESIP Member Organization designated by the Partnership Committee
as Inactive shall be notified by email or other means of their status. A
good faith effort must be made to contact the ESIP Member Organization
to notify them of their change in status.

4.4 Any ESIP Member Organization designated as Inactive may be restored
to Active status by resuming participation in the business of ESIP
through attending a General Assembly meeting directly or by proxy,
and/or a petition to the Partnership Committee stating reasons for
inactivity.

4.5 If an inactive ESIP Member Organization does not restore to Active
status after a period of one (1) year from the date of their
notification, the Member Organization concerned may be removed from ESIP
by a majority vote of the Partnership Committee. After removal,
application as a new ESIP Member Organization to the Partnership
Committee must be made.

4.6 Any ESIP Member Organization may be removed from ESIP for conduct
that in any way tends to substantially injure ESIP or to affect
adversely its reputation, or that is destructive to ESIP's goals and
activities (Ref: [ESIP code of
conduct](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/2.0%20Ethics%20and%20Conduct/ESIP%20P&P%202.1%20Code%20of%20Conduct.md)).
Any Representative to the Assembly may recommend removal of any ESIP
Member Organization to the Chair of the Partnership Committee. The
Partnership Committee will notify the ESIP Member Organization concerned
and ask for comment in its defense. The Partnership Committee will then
consider the recommendation and, if approved, will present its
recommendation for removal with the comments from the concerned ESIP
member in writing to the Chair of the Governance Committee. The
Governance Committee will then petition the Representatives. If the
recommendation for removal receives approval by two-thirds of the
Representatives, ESIP Member Organization concerned will be removed from
ESIP.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on January 14, 2019.
