**Policy and Procedure 4.3 - Employee Search and Selection**

1)  **Purpose**

The purpose of this policy is to ensure equal opportunity in ESIP's
search and selection process.

2)  **Employee Search and Selection Policy**

ESIP complies with applicable federal and state laws and regulations,
applied fairly and consistently to meet objectives in employment,
including affirmative action and work force diversity**.**

3)  **Employee Search and Selection Procedure**

A detailed position description will be created for any new position.

The ESIP Executive Director works with the hiring supervisor toward the
goal of generating an adequate pool of qualified applicants through
suitable advertising. ESIP\'s policy on equal employment opportunity
should be considered in all recruiting efforts.

The hiring supervisor may use job-related information derived from
applications, résumés, publication lists, seminars, interviews,
reference checks, relevant and applicable tests, and physical
examinations (if the job has special physical demands) to select the
person to fill the vacancy. ESIP\'s policy on equal employment
opportunity should be considered in all hiring decisions.

The employment offer, including recommended pay rate, must be approved
by the ESIP Executive Director. All job offers must be in writing and
are generated by the ESIP Executive Director, or his or her designee.

ESIP normally hires and compensates only those foreign nationals who are
permanent U.S. residents or who possess an appropriate work
authorization for the position being sought.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.
