## **3.12 - RECORD DATE**

### **3.12.1**

For purposes of establishing the members entitled to receive notice of any meeting, entitled to vote at any meeting, entitled to vote by written ballot, or entitled to exercise any rights in any lawful action, the Board of Directors may, in advance, fix a record date. The record date for the following actions will be fixed as follows:

  **3.12.1.1** - Sending notice of a meeting shall be no more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of the meeting;  
  **3.12.1.2** - Voting at a meeting shall be no more than 70 days before the date of the meeting;  
  **3.12.1.3** - Voting by written ballot shall be no more than 70 days before the day on which the first written ballot is mailed or solicited; and  
  **3.12.1.4** - Taking any other action shall be no more than 70 days before that action.

### **3.12.2**

If not otherwise fixed by the Board, the record date for determining members entitled to receive notice of a members’ business meeting shall be the next business day preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, the next business day preceding the day on which the meeting is held. If not otherwise fixed by the Board, the record date for determining members entitled to vote at the meeting shall be the day on which the meeting is held.

### **3.12.3**

If not otherwise fixed by the Board, the record date for determining members entitled to vote by written ballot shall be the day on which the first written ballot is mailed or solicited.

### **3.12.4**

If not otherwise fixed by the Board, the record date for determining members entitled to exercise any rights with respect to any other lawful action shall be the date on which the Board adopts the resolution relating to that action, or the 70th day before the date of that action, whichever is later.

### **3.12.5**

For purposes of [Section 3.19](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/Bylaws/Article%2003%20Members/3.19%20Adjournment%20and%20notice%20of%20adjourned%20meetings.md) of this Article, a person holding a membership at the close of business on the record date shall be a member of record.

### **3.12.6**

A determination of members entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the members shall be effective for any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date, which it shall do if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting.

### **3.12.7**

If a court orders a meeting adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed for the original meeting, it may provide that the original record date continues in effect or it may fix a new record date.
