### **11.3.1**

The Articles of Incorporation shall be amended in the following manner:

   **11.3.1.1** - Except as pursuant to Section 11.3.3, the proposed amendment shall be adopted by the Board;  
   **11.3.1.2** - The Board shall transmit to the members a recommendation that the members approve the amendment, unless the Board makes a determination that because of conflicts of interest or other special circumstances, it should not make such a recommendation, in which case the Board must transmit to the members the basis for that determination.  
   **11.3.1.3** - The Board may condition its submission of the amendment to the members on any basis.  
   **11.3.1.4** - An amendment may be proposed by 10% or more of the members entitled to vote on the amendment or by such greater or lesser number of members as is specified in the articles. Sections 11.3.1.1 through 11.3.1.3 shall not apply to an amendment proposed by the members under this paragraph.  
   **11.3.1.5** - If the amendment is required to be approved by the members, and the approval is to be given at a meeting, the Corporation shall give notice to each member entitled to vote on the amendment of the meeting of members at which the amendment is to be submitted for approval. The notice shall state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the amendment and shall contain or be accompanied by a copy of the amendment.  
   **11.3.1.6** - The amendment shall be adopted by approval of a majority of the Member Representatives voting at a meeting at which a quorum exists.

### **11.3.2**

The Board of directors may adopt amendments to the Articles of Incorporation without approval of the members to:

   **11.3.2.1** - Change the designation of registered agent;  
   **11.3.2.2** - Change the corporation name by substituting or deleting the word “corporation,” “incorporated,” “company,” “limited,” or the abbreviation “corp.,” “inc.,” “co.,” or “ltd.,” for a similar word or abbreviation in the name; or  
   **11.3.2.3** - Restate without change all of the then operative provisions of the Articles.

### **11.3.3**

The Board may restate its articles of incorporation at any time, without approval by the members or any other person, to consolidate all amendments into a single document without substantive change. The restated articles shall be delivered to the Mayor of the District of Columbia for filing articles of amendment, including a statement that the articles of amendment are a restatement that consolidates all amendments into a single record. Duly adopted restated articles of incorporation shall supersede the original articles of incorporation and all amendments thereto.

