Basis of Accounting
Policy: The organization uses the accrual basis of accounting. The accrual basis is the method of accounting whereby revenue and expenses are identified with specific periods of time, such as a month or year, and are recorded as incurred. This method of recording revenue and expenses is without regard to date of receipt or payment of cash.
Procedure: 
Throughout the fiscal year, expenses are accrued into the month in which they are incurred. The books are closed no later than the 15th of the month after the close of the month. Invoices received after closing the books will be counted as a current-month expense.
At the close of the fiscal year, this rule is not enforced. All expenses that should be accrued into the prior fiscal year, are so accrued, in order to ensure that year-end financial statements reflect all expenses incurred during the fiscal year. Year-end books are closed no later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year.
Revenue is always recorded in the month in which it was earned or pledged.
Reconciliations
Policy: All bank and credit card statements will be opened and reviewed in a timely manner. Reconciliation and approval will occur within 30 days of the close of the month.
Procedures:
Banking and credit card transactions are reviewed online weekly or bi-weekly by the Financial Operations Coordinator, for the purpose of entering into Quickbooks in a timely manner those transactions which otherwise would not be acknowledged until a monthly statement is received.
Monthly statements are reviewed by the Financial Operations Coordinator, who then submits them to a third party bookkeeper for reconciliation. The bookkeeper communicates to the Financial Operations Coordinator any discrepancies, and reports back the results of the reconciliations.
Security
Access to online banking and credit card accounts is restricted to the following:
The Executive Director
The Financial Operations Coordinator
The accountant
Access to the internal accounting system (Quickbooks) is restricted to the following:
The Executive Director
The Financial Operations Coordinator
The accountant
The bookkeeper
Only the Executive Director has the authority to approve payments and sign checks, or perform online banking transactions, and any payments in excess of $5,000 must be approved by the ESIP president in addition to the Executive Director.
Only the Executive Director has administrative rights to internal and external accounting functions, and only the Executive Director can add, delete, or grant permissions to the list of others who have access.
