### 3.4 Revenue & Accounts Receivable
Invoice Preparation 
Policy: All grants and sponsors are invoiced each month, or as required by the agreement, to capture all billable time and expenses and ensure a regular healthy cash flow for the organization. All final invoices for the prior month are completed by the 15th of the following month (ex: June 15th for May). Invoices are based on costs recorded in the accounting system and any indirects allowed by the agreement.
 
Procedures:
The Finance Manager gathers relevant expense documentation, prepares all invoices, and submits to the Executive Director for approval by the 10th of each month.
Following approval, the Finance Manager makes two copies of the invoice. One copy is electronically mailed to the client/customer no later than the 15th of the month and one copy is filed in the client folder.
The Finance Manager will perform a monthly reconciliation between recorded direct costs shown in the accounting system and amounts invoiced. Discrepancies will be addressed in the next billing cycle.
As part of the monthly close process, the Finance Manager reviews an Accounts Receivable Aging report and alerts the Executive Director of invoices more than 60 days overdue.
The Executive Director determines appropriate collection efforts for long outstanding invoices. The Executive Director is also notified of any receivables that are more than 90 days outstanding and/or more than $5000. 
If an overpayment from a government customer has been identified, the government customer will be notified and grant overpayments will be refunded on a timely basis to the paying office or applied to subsequent billings. Records will be maintained of the timely identification of over or under payments and the actions taken to correct the overpayment. 
 
Revenue Recognition 
Policy: All contributions will be recorded in accordance with GAAP, with specific attention to standards FASB 116 and 117. Contributions are recorded as pledged or received in accordance with FASB 116, and must be credited to the appropriate revenue lines as presented in the annual budget and coded as designated in the organization’s Chart of Accounts.
 
Procedures:
The Executive Director reviews all revenue in excess of $5,000 and indicates on the letter or copy of the check how the revenue shall be recognized (as earned/contributed, conditional/unconditional and restricted/unrestricted). If there is a question or uncertainty about how to recognize a particular contribution, the Executive Director will ensure that the donor is contacted to clarify the intent of the contribution.
The Finance Manager is responsible for posting revenue to the general ledger in accordance with the determination made by the Executive Director.
 
Cash Receipts 
Policy: How does money come in?   
Most  incremental payments from grants are electronically deposited into a designated ESIP bank account. Monies received by other means may be deposited physically or electronically. No single deposit account will contain an amount over which the FDIC will insure.
Procedure: 
The Executive Director receives and opens all mail and codes income; Finance Manager posts receipts to the accounting system. Alternative: Upon receipt of funds, whether electronically or mailed, the Executive Director codes the income and the Finance Manager posts the receipt to the accounting system.
Checks are endorsed by Executive Director and deposited electronically. Electronically deposited checks are retained [state location and whether hard copy or electronic]. If a bank deposit is made, the check is first scanned or copied to retain a record of its existence.
Checks and cash are kept in lock box until depositing. No deposit will be locked in the filing cabinet for more than 24 hours except when received over a weekend or holiday.
 
Deposits
Policy: Checks are deposited electronically at time of receipt.
