### 3.5 Expense & Accounts Payable 
Payroll 
Policy: We pay staff members on the last day of the month. If the payday falls on a holiday, staff members will be paid on the last working day before the holiday.
 
Procedures:
The Executive Director processes payroll through ADP and monitors the relationship with ADP. 
 
 
Time Sheet Preparation & Approval
Policy: All staff members must complete a timesheet for each pay period. All staff members should record actual hours worked plus all use of paid time off.
 
Procedures:
Employees complete timesheets and submit them to their supervisors on the due date, based on the schedule produced at the beginning of the year.
Supervisors review, correct if necessary, sign and submit timesheets to the Finance Manager within three (3) working days from the timesheet due date.
The Finance Manager is responsible for entering time sheet information into the accounting system monthly. All paid time off balances are maintained within the payroll system, based on the information provided on approved timesheets.
 
Purchase & Procurement 
Policy: Any expenditure in excess of $2000XXX for the purchase of a single item should have bids from three (3) suppliers if possible. These bids will be reviewed by the Executive Director and the bid award must be specifically approved in advance by the Executive Director.   

Due diligence must be followed for acquisitions of goods and services (resources), especially for procurement of resources that include costs for acquisition, operation, storage, maintenance, safeguards, or disposal. All acquisitions should be approved by the [Responsible office, individual, or role for approval of planned acquisitions]. A request for an acquisition must be submitted at least [days needed] days before the resource must be ordered. A comparative analysis of available resources should be completed prior to procurement. The procurement of resources that cost more than $nn.nn  [Maximum cost of acquisitions that can be completed without bids] must follow a formal bidding process to ensure that the resource is acquired at a competitive price. 
 
 
BillApproval & Processing 
Policy: Bills may be received by postal service or email. All hard copy bills received are scanned and the electronic image is stored [location]. All billsmust be approved by the Executive Director. Approved bills will normally be paid within 30 days of receipt or as required by the agreement/bill terms. All accounts payable transactions must have supporting documentation adequate to demonstrate that costs claimed have been incurred, are allocable to the grant or other cost objective (personnel, indirect), and comply with applicable regulations.
Procedure: 
Bills will be opened, reviewed and scanned to electronic form by the Executive Director.
All goods and services purchased directly for a grant are coded to the appropriate Job Name in the accounting system. The bills will be marked by the Executive Director or designee to show job, account, and class to ensure proper coding of costs in the accounting system.
Bills are entered into the accounting system by the Finance Manager no less than monthly, and a digital copy of the original bill as well as supporting documentation (receipts) if available will be attached thereto.
Copies of all bills paid will be filed online by the finance department. After two years these documents will be archived but they will not be destroyed. See the Record Retention Policy for record disposition guidance.
Cash Disbursement
Questions to consider in developing Policy:
·        What kind of documentation is required from vendors (i.e. itemized invoices)?
 
Questions to consider in developing Procedures:
Cash payments are made from the Operating Account unless Board approval is granted to use an alternative funding source.
·        Are check requests required when no invoice is received?
·        Who prepares checks? Who signs them? Who mails them?
·        How are expenditure records kept?
System recently implemented is as follows:
Vendors submit a request for payment electronically via email. Email forwards to both Executive Director and Financial Operations Coordinator. Executive Director reviews and approves payment, then assigns FOC the task of entering the bill into the accounting system. FOC also monitors any backlog of payment requests (emails) that the ED has not approved, and prompts ED when applicable. FOC enters the approved bill into the accounting system and attaches electronic copies (see Bill Approval & Processing section above.) ED periodically reviews the unpaid bills report from the accounting system, and pays selected bills by printing checks, signing and mailing.


Expense Reimbursement 
Policy: Staff members are reimbursed for approved travel and entertainment expenses. Staff members are asked to complete a record of all expenses for which they seek reimbursement and to submit receipts along with the expense record for reimbursement to billing@esipfed.org. Reimbursement is made via check or EFT within two weeks of receipt of the reimbursement request.
Travel Expense - see policy 
Company Credit Cards
Policy: 
Expense Allocation 
Questions to consider in developing Policy:
·        What is the basis of cost allocation used by the organization?
·        Who is responsible for developing and maintaining the cost allocation system?
·        Who approves the system and who is involved in any changes?
 All cost items (labor, travel and other direct costs) which are incurred specifically for the performance of a particular grant or similar cost objective are direct charges provided that all like costs, incurred for the same purpose and in similar circumstances, can also be readily and economically identified as direct costs. Direct costs assigned to grants include direct materials used, labor hours directly worked on the grant, and equipment used exclusively for the grant, and goods or services received from other entities that are directly used in completing the grant. Cost items where (i) the allocability to specific cost objectives is not readily measurable or (ii) are insignificant in value (example: supplies) are charged to the applicable indirect expense pool.
Questions to consider in developing Procedures:
·        What costs are typically allocated, how are they calculated and how often is this done?
·        Who is responsible for creating and posting allocation entries and how often is this done?
Upon receipt of an executed grant or other agreement, the Finance Manager creates a new customer/job in the accounting system. Service items and classes may be created as needed to facilitate cost tracking in accordance with grant requirements.
Direct expenses are all coded to the job via time entry, purchase orders, expense reports, bill, and other means of documenting expenses.
Indirect rate allocations to government grants are calculated outside of the accounting system by extracting cost data from the system and entering it into an Excel rate model.
 
Indirect costs are costs of resources jointly or commonly used to benefit two or more grants but not specifically identifiable with any one grant.  Typical examples of indirect costs include costs of general administrative (G&A) services, technical support, depreciation, insurance, security, operational and maintenance costs for buildings and equipment, and utilities.  As with direct costs, indirect costs can be incurred internally or for goods and services received from other entities. 
 
All indirect costs are segregated into measurable pools of related costs. They are accumulated by logical groupings or pools that are based on the common relationships that they share with the business objectives. These pools are distributed to the benefiting or generating objectives by means of an allocation base common to all objectives which will share in the allocation of the pooled expenses. The basic classifications of indirect pools are fringe, indirect, and unallowable.
