### 3.6 Asset Management
Cash Management & Investments 
Policy: The Executive Director administers the investment accounts. 
 
Procedures:
Investment accounts are held at Vanguard. The Executive Director has access. 
Executive Director is authorized to make transfers from interest for restricted purposes. 
 
 
Capital Equipment
Policy: All property that has been acquired or created by ESIP, which has a current value of $3,000.00 or more and a useful life greater than one year must be described in the current inventory of property, which must include an ESIP Property Identification Number (PIN). When practical, the PIN will be permanently affixed to the physical property or included within the packaging for intellectual assets. Property that does that meet this requirement will be expensed in the year of acquisition. Property that has been acquired directly for a grant will be expensed to the grant and will not be capitalized.
 
Procedures:
·        How is inventory of capitalized items kept? Who has oversight?
·        What depreciation method is used and who maintains the schedules?
·        How often is depreciation posted to the general ledger and by whom?
·        What are the procedures for disposing of assets when they are no longer in use?
 
 
Employee Retirement Accounts  
Policy: ESIP offers a 403(b) plan to employees held at Vanguard. ESIP will provide matching contribution of up to 5% of salary for employee contributions to a qualified retirement account arrangement.   
Procedure: 
Executive Director is responsible for ERISA compliances and works with a third party firm. 
ADP withholds employee contribution and Executive Director makes company contributions by 3rd of the month. 



 
 
Operating Reserve 
Policy: The target minimum operating reserve fund for the organization is three (3) months of average operating costs. The calculation of average monthly operating costs includes all recurring, predictable expenses such as salaries and benefits, travel, program, and ongoing professional services.

ESIP must maintain a minimum amount of available funds on deposit to ensure that operations can be maintained in the absence of funds from a current contract or award. The minimum amount of available funds must be equal to the total cost of n months of salaries for all permanent staff members on the payroll and to the total cost of n months of other current overhead expenses. 
Procedure: 
The amount of the operating reserve will be calculated each year after approval of the annual budget, reported to the Finance Committee and Board of Directors, and included in regular financial reports.
The operating reserve will be funded with surplus unrestricted operating funds.
The Board of Directors may from time to time direct that a specific source of revenue be set aside for operating reserves. Examples may include one-time gifts or bequests, special grants, or special appeals.
To use the operating reserves, the Executive Director will submit a request to the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. The request will include the analysis and determination of the use of funds and plans for replenishment. The organization’s goal is to replenish the funds used within twelve (12) months to restore the operating reserve fund to the target minimum amount.

Operating Reserve Questions to consider:
Does the organization have a policy to maintain an operating reserve at a certain level (a specific dollar amount or months of expenses?)
Is the operating reserve available in cash maintained in a segregated bank account or investment fund or will it be commingled with the general cash and investment accounts of the organization?
Who can authorize use of this reserve and for what types of purpose?
How is the status of the operating reserve monitored and reported to the Board of Directors?
