ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.3 Financial Planning and Reporting Policies.md, before:

**Policy and Procedure 3.3 -- Financial Planning and Reporting**

##### A.  Budgeting Process 

 a.  Policy: The organization's annual budget is prepared and
        approved annually for the organization. The budget is prepared
        by the Executive Director in conjunction with the Committees and
        Working Groups and the Board Finance Committee. The budget is to
        be approved by the Board of Directors prior to the start of each
        fiscal year. The budget is revised during the year only if
        approved by the Board of Directors.

 b.  Procedures:

   i.  The Executive Director will work together with the staff,
            and ESIP leadership to ensure that the annual budget is an
            accurate reflection of programmatic and infrastructure goals
            for the coming year.

   ii. The Executive Director and the Board Treasurer will present
            a draft budget to the Finance Committee at least 30 days
            prior to the end of the fiscal year and at least 2 weeks
            prior to its submission to the full Board of Directors.

   iii. The Finance Committee shall review and approve a
            recommended fiscal year budget and submit it for approval to
            the Board of Directors.

   iv. The Board of Directors will review and approve the budget at
            its last meeting prior to the start of the fiscal year.

   v. [Timeline](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/3.0%20Business%20and%20Finance/ESIP%20P%26P%203.3A%20FiCom%20annual%20budget%20cycle.md)

##### B.  Internal Financial Reports

  a.  Policy: The organization prepares regular financial reports on a
        monthly basis. All reports are finalized no later than 30 days
        after the close of the prior month. The organization's financial
        statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted
        Accounting Principles (GAAP). The presentation of the Financial
        Statements shall follow the recommendation of the Financial
        Accounting Standards Board (FASB) No. 117, "Financial Statements
        of Not-For-Profit Organizations." Under GAAP, revenues are
        classified based on the existence or absence of donor-imposed
        restrictions. Accordingly, the net assets of the organization
        are classified as unrestricted, temporarily restricted and
        permanently restricted.

  b.  Procedures:

   i. The Finance Manager is responsible for producing the
            following year-to-date reports within 30 days of the end of
            each month: P&L, Balance Sheet, P&L by Job, and P&L by
            Class.

   ii. The Executive Director and Treasurer review financial
            reports each month, monthly reports are available to Finance
            Committee and the Treasurer presents reports to the full
            Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.

   iii. On a quarterly basis, the Executive Director prepares a
            narrative report that summarizes the organization's current
            financial position and includes explanations for budget
            variance.

##### C.  Audit

  a.  Policy: An annual audit is required if federal expenditures are
        above $700,000. The audit should be completed by end of January
        following close of fiscal year.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. The Finance Committee oversees the audit annually and hires
            the CPA firm every five years.

   ii.  The Executive Director oversees the external CPA firm and
            liaises between firm and staff.

   iii. The audit report is presented in the first board meeting
            following the issuance of the final report. A special
            meeting may be called if the time between report issuance
            and the next meeting is greater than 30 days.

   iv. A link is provided on ESIP website for current audit.

##### D.  Tax Compliance

  a.  Policy: The annual Federal Form 990 is prepared by external CPA.
        Federal Form 990 is filed by February 15, the year following the
        close of the fiscal year or an extension is filed.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. The Executive Director is a staff liaison to the tax
            preparer.

   ii. The Executive Director approves the tax returns.

   iii. The 990 is made available to the Board electronically.

   iv. The 990 is made available to public through GuideStar.

##### E.  Quarterly Payroll Reports 

  a.  Policy: ESIP outsources payroll to ADP.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. ADP prepares employee W2s by January 15 and the Executive
            Director ensures accuracy, timeliness and delivery to
            employees.

   ii.  ADP files quarterly payroll tax reports. The Executive
            Director oversees this responsibility to ensure accuracy and
            timeliness.

##### F.  Committee and Working Group Proposals and Budget Requests

  a.  See the [ESIP Federation Policy on Committee and Working Group Proposals and Supporting Budget Requests](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/3.0%20Business%20and%20Finance/ESIP%20P%26P%203.3F%20Federation%20Committee%20Budget%20Request%20Policy.md)
    

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.

Commit message:

Updating to reflect revisions approved by the Board on Sep 15 2021

ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.3 Financial Planning and Reporting Policies.md, after:

**Policy and Procedure 3.3 -- Financial Planning and Reporting**

##### A.  Budgeting Process 

 a.  Policy: The organization's annual budget is prepared and
        approved annually for the organization. The budget is prepared
        by the Executive Director in conjunction with the Committees and
        Working Groups and the Board Finance Committee. The budget is to
        be approved by the Board of Directors prior to the start of each
        fiscal year. The budget is revised during the year only if
        approved by the Board of Directors.

 b.  Procedures:

   i.  The Executive Director will work together with the staff,
            and ESIP leadership to ensure that the annual budget is an
            accurate reflection of programmatic and infrastructure goals
            for the coming year.

   ii. The Executive Director and the Board Treasurer will present
            a draft budget to the Finance Committee at least 30 days
            prior to the end of the fiscal year and at least 2 weeks
            prior to its submission to the full Board of Directors.

   iii. The Finance Committee shall review and approve a
            recommended fiscal year budget and submit it for approval to
            the Board of Directors.

   iv. The Board of Directors will review and approve the budget at
            its last meeting prior to the start of the fiscal year.

   v. [Timeline](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/3.0%20Business%20and%20Finance/ESIP%20P%26P%203.3A%20FiCom%20annual%20budget%20cycle.md)

##### B.  Internal Financial Reports

  a.  Policy: The organization prepares regular financial reports on a
        monthly basis. All reports are finalized no later than 30 days
        after the close of the prior month. The organization's financial
        statements are prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted
        Accounting Principles (GAAP). The presentation of the Financial
        Statements shall follow the recommendation of the Financial
        Accounting Standards Board (FASB) No. 117, "Financial Statements
        of Not-For-Profit Organizations." Under GAAP, revenues are
        classified based on the existence or absence of donor-imposed
        restrictions. Accordingly, the net assets of the organization
        are classified as unrestricted, temporarily restricted and
        permanently restricted.

  b.  Procedures:

   i. The outside accountant is responsible for producing the
            following year-to-date reports within 30 days of the end of
            each month: P&L, Balance Sheet, P&L by Job, and P&L by
            Class.

   ii. The Executive Director and Treasurer review financial
            reports each month, monthly reports are available to Finance
            Committee and the Treasurer presents reports to the full
            Board of Directors on a quarterly basis.

   iii. On a quarterly basis, the Executive Director prepares a
            narrative report that summarizes the organization's current
            financial position and includes explanations for budget
            variance.

##### C.  Audit

  a.  Policy: An annual audit is required if federal expenditures are
        above $700,000. The audit should be completed by end of January
        following close of fiscal year.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. The Finance Committee oversees the audit annually and hires
            the CPA firm every five years.

   ii.  The Executive Director oversees the external CPA firm and
            liaises between firm and staff.

   iii. The audit report is presented in the first board meeting
            following the issuance of the final report. A special
            meeting may be called if the time between report issuance
            and the next meeting is greater than 30 days.

   iv. A link is provided on ESIP website for current audit.

##### D.  Tax Compliance

  a.  Policy: The annual Federal Form 990 is prepared by external CPA.
        Federal Form 990 is filed by February 15, the year following the
        close of the fiscal year or an extension is filed.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. The Executive Director is a staff liaison to the tax
            preparer.

   ii. The Executive Director approves the tax returns.

   iii. The 990 is made available to the Board electronically.

   iv. The 990 is made available to public through GuideStar.

##### E.  Quarterly Payroll Reports 

  a.  Policy: The Operations Director processes payroll through Quickbooks.

  b.  Procedure:

   i. The Operations Director prepares employee W2s by January 15 and the Executive
            Director ensures accuracy, timeliness and delivery to
            employees.

##### F.  Committee and Working Group Proposals and Budget Requests

  a.  See the [ESIP Federation Policy on Committee and Working Group Proposals and Supporting Budget Requests](https://github.com/ESIPFed/Governance/blob/master/ESIP%20Policies%20and%20Procedures/3.0%20Business%20and%20Finance/ESIP%20P%26P%203.3F%20Federation%20Committee%20Budget%20Request%20Policy.md)
    

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017. Revisions to this policy were approved by the Board on September 15 2021.
