ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.4 Revenue and Accounts Receivables Policies.md, before:

**Policy and Procedure 3.4 -- Revenue and Accounts Receivable**
===============================================================

#### A.  Invoice Preparation

a.  Policy: All grants and sponsors are invoiced each month, or as
        required by the agreement, to capture all billable time and
        expenses and ensure a regular healthy cash flow for the
        organization. All invoices for the prior month are completed by
        the 15th of the following month (ex: June 15th for May).
        Invoices are based on costs recorded in the accounting system
        and any indirects allowed by the agreement.

b.  Procedures:

   i.  The Finance Manager gathers relevant expense documentation,
            prepares all invoices, and submits to the Executive Director
            for approval by the 10th of each month.

   ii. Following approval, the Finance Manager electronic invoice
            is emailed or mailed and saved in a network folder.

   iii. The Finance Manager will perform a monthly reconciliation
            between recorded direct costs shown in the accounting system
            and amounts invoiced. Discrepancies will be addressed in the
            next billing cycle.

   iv. As part of the monthly close process, the Finance Manager
            reviews an Accounts Receivable Aging report and alerts the
            Executive Director of invoices more than 60 days overdue.

   v.  The Executive Director determines appropriate collection
            efforts for long outstanding invoices. The Executive
            Director is also notified of any receivables that are more
            than 90 days outstanding and/or more than $5000.

   vi. If an overpayment from a government customer has been
            identified, the government customer will be notified and
            grant overpayments will be refunded on a timely basis to the
            paying office or applied to subsequent billings. Records
            will be maintained of the timely identification of over or
            under payments and the actions taken to correct the
            overpayment.

#### B.  Revenue Recognition 

c.  Policy: All contributions will be recorded in accordance with
        GAAP, with specific attention to standards FASB 116 and 117.
        Contributions are recorded as pledged or received in accordance
        with FASB 116, and must be credited to the appropriate revenue
        lines as presented in the annual budget and coded as designated
        in the organization's Chart of Accounts.

d.  Procedures:

   vii. The Executive Director reviews all revenue in excess of
            $5,000 and indicates on the letter or copy of the check how
            the revenue shall be recognized (as earned/contributed,
            conditional/unconditional and restricted/unrestricted). If
            there is a question or uncertainty about how to recognize a
            particular contribution, the Executive Director will ensure
            that the donor is contacted to clarify the intent of the
            contribution.

   viii. The Finance Manager is responsible for posting revenue to
            the general ledger in accordance with the determination made
            by the Executive Director.

#### C.  Cash Receipts 

e.  Policy: Most incremental payments from grants are electronically
        deposited into a designated ESIP bank account. Monies received
        by other means may be deposited physically or electronically. No
        single deposit account will contain an amount over which the
        FDIC will insure.

f.  Procedure:

   ix. The Executive Director receives and opens all mail.

   x.  Checks are endorsed by Executive Director and deposited
            electronically. Electronically deposited checks are retained
            at 4524 14th St., Boulder, CO. If a bank deposit is made,
            the check is first scanned or copied to retain a record of
            its existence.

   xi. Checks and cash are kept in lock box until depositing. No
            deposit will be locked in the filing cabinet for more than
            24 hours except when received over a weekend or holiday.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.

Commit message:

Updating per revisions approved by the Board on Sep 15 2021

ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.4 Revenue and Accounts Receivables Policies.md, after:

**Policy and Procedure 3.4 -- Revenue and Accounts Receivable**
===============================================================

#### A.  Invoice Preparation

a.  Policy: All grants and sponsors are invoiced each month, or as
        required by the agreement, to capture all billable time and
        expenses and ensure a regular healthy cash flow for the
        organization. All invoices for the prior month are completed by
        the 15th of the following month (ex: June 15th for May).
        Invoices are based on costs recorded in the accounting system
        and any indirects allowed by the agreement.

b.  Procedures:

   i.  The Operations Director gathers relevant expense documentation,
            prepares all invoices, and submits to the Executive Director
            for approval by the 10th of each month.

   ii. Following approval, the Operations Director electronic invoice
            is emailed or mailed and saved in a network folder.

   iii. The outside accountant will perform a monthly reconciliation
            between recorded direct costs shown in the accounting system
            and amounts invoiced. Discrepancies will be addressed in the
            next billing cycle.

   iv. As part of the monthly close process, the outside accountant
            reviews an Accounts Receivable Aging report and alerts the
            Executive Director of invoices more than 60 days overdue.

   v.  The Executive Director determines appropriate collection
            efforts for long outstanding invoices. The Executive
            Director is also notified of any receivables that are more
            than 90 days outstanding and/or more than $5000.

   vi. If an overpayment from a government customer has been
            identified, the government customer will be notified and
            grant overpayments will be refunded on a timely basis to the
            paying office or applied to subsequent billings. Records
            will be maintained of the timely identification of over or
            under payments and the actions taken to correct the
            overpayment.

#### B.  Revenue Recognition 

c.  Policy: All contributions will be recorded in accordance with
        GAAP, with specific attention to standards FASB 116 and 117.
        Contributions are recorded as pledged or received in accordance
        with FASB 116, and must be credited to the appropriate revenue
        lines as presented in the annual budget and coded as designated
        in the organization's Chart of Accounts.

d.  Procedures:

   vii. The Executive Director reviews all revenue in excess of
            $5,000 and indicates on the letter or copy of the check how
            the revenue shall be recognized (as earned/contributed,
            conditional/unconditional and restricted/unrestricted). If
            there is a question or uncertainty about how to recognize a
            particular contribution, the Executive Director will ensure
            that the donor is contacted to clarify the intent of the
            contribution.

   viii. The Operations Director is responsible for posting revenue to
            the general ledger in accordance with the determination made
            by the Executive Director.

#### C.  Cash Receipts 

e.  Policy: Most incremental payments from grants are electronically
        deposited into a designated ESIP bank account. Monies received
        by other means may be deposited physically or electronically. No
        single deposit account will contain an amount over which the
        FDIC will insure.

f.  Procedure:

   ix. The Operations Director receives and opens all mail.

   x.  Checks are endorsed by Executive Director and deposited. If a bank deposit is made,
            the check is first scanned or copied to retain a record of
            its existence.

   xi. Checks and cash are kept in lock box until depositing. No
            deposit will be locked in the filing cabinet for more than
            24 hours except when received over a weekend or holiday.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017. Revisions to this policy were approved by the Board on September 15 2021.
