ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.1 Accounting Policies and Procedures.md, before:

**Policy and Procedure 3.1 - Accounting**

A.  Basis of Accounting

    a.  Policy: The organization uses the accrual basis of accounting.
        The accrual basis is the method of accounting whereby revenue
        and expenses are identified with specific periods of time, such
        as a month or year, and are recorded as incurred. This method of
        recording revenue and expenses is without regard to date of
        receipt or payment of cash.

    b.  Procedure:

        i.  Throughout the fiscal year, expenses are accrued into the
            month in which they are incurred. The books are closed no
            later than the 15th of the month after the close of the
            month. Invoices received after closing the books will be
            counted as a current-month expense.

        ii. At the close of the fiscal year, this rule is not enforced.
            All expenses that should be accrued into the prior fiscal
            year, are so accrued, in order to ensure that year-end
            financial statements reflect all expenses incurred during
            the fiscal year. Year-end books are closed no later than 90
            days after the end of the fiscal year.

        iii. Revenue is always recorded in the month in which it was
            earned or pledged.

B.  Reconciliations

    a.  Policy: All bank and credit card statements will be opened and
        reviewed in a timely manner. Reconciliation and approval will
        occur within 30 days of the close of the month.

    b.  Procedures:

        i. Monthly statements are reviewed by the Finance Manager, who
            then submits them to a third party bookkeeper for
            reconciliation. The bookkeeper communicates to the Finance
            Manager any discrepancies, and reports back the results of
            the reconciliations.

C.  Security

    a.  Access to online banking and credit card accounts is restricted
        to the following:

        i.  The Executive Director

        ii. The Finance Manager

        iii. The accountant

    b.  Access to the internal accounting system (Quickbooks) is
        restricted to the following:

        i. The Executive Director

        ii. The Finance Manager

        iii.  The accountant

        iv. The bookkeeper

        v. External Auditor

    c.  Only the Executive Director has the authority to approve
        payments and sign checks, or perform online banking
        transactions, and any payments in excess of $5,000 must be
        approved by the ESIP President in addition to the Executive
        Director.

    d.  Only the Executive Director has administrative rights to
        internal and external accounting functions, and only the
        Executive Director can add, delete, or grant permissions to the
        list of others who have access.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.

Commit message:

Updates per Board revision on Sep 15 2021

ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.1 Accounting Policies and Procedures.md, after:

**Policy and Procedure 3.1 - Accounting**

A.  Basis of Accounting

    a.  Policy: The organization uses the accrual basis of accounting.
        The accrual basis is the method of accounting whereby revenue
        and expenses are identified with specific periods of time, such
        as a month or year, and are recorded as incurred. This method of
        recording revenue and expenses is without regard to date of
        receipt or payment of cash.

    b.  Procedure:

        i.  Throughout the fiscal year, expenses are accrued into the
            month in which they are incurred. The books are closed no
            later than the 15th of the month after the close of the
            month. Invoices received after closing the books will be
            counted as a current-month expense.

        ii. At the close of the fiscal year, this rule is not enforced.
            All expenses that should be accrued into the prior fiscal
            year, are so accrued, in order to ensure that year-end
            financial statements reflect all expenses incurred during
            the fiscal year. Year-end books are closed no later than 90
            days after the end of the fiscal year.

        iii. Revenue is always recorded in the month in which it was
            earned or pledged.

B.  Reconciliations

    a.  Policy: All bank and credit card statements will be opened and
        reviewed in a timely manner. Reconciliation and approval will
        occur within 30 days of the close of the month. The Treasurer approves the Executive Director charges and any invoice over $5,000.

    b.  Procedures:

        i. Monthly statements are reviewed and reconciled by the Operations Director. The Operations Director communicates to the Executive Director any discrepancies, and reports back the results of
            the reconciliations.

C.  Security

    a.  Access to online banking and credit card accounts is restricted
        to the following:

        i.  The Executive Director

        ii. The Operations Director

    b.  Access to the internal accounting system (Quickbooks) is
        restricted to the following:

        i. The Executive Director

        ii. Operations Director

        iii.  The accountant

        iv. External Auditor

    c.  Only the Executive Director has the authority to approve
        payments and sign checks, or perform online banking
        transactions, and any payments in excess of $5,000 must be
        approved by the ESIP President in addition to the Executive
        Director.
        
        For continuity, the operations Director will have access to online bank and grant accounts.  In the event that the Executive Director is unable to perform these tasks, the Operations Director may approve payments and sign checks, or perform online banking transactions, and initiate draws from federal grant accounts with written permission from the Executive Director or Treasurer for each instance.  (exercising this authority without express permission is grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination.)  All authorizations will be kept for review by the auditors.

    d.  Only the Executive Director has administrative rights to
        internal and external accounting functions, and only the
        Executive Director can add, delete, or grant permissions to the
        list of others who have access.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017. Revisions to this policy were approved by the Board on September 15 2021.
