ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.3F Federation Committee Budget Request Policy.md, before:

 ### ESIP Federation Policy on Committee and Working Group Proposals and Supporting Budget Requests
 
 The ESIP Federation makes funds available to its committees and
 working groups through an annual budget process (funds permitting).
 The following details the guiding principles and required elements for
 any budget request submitted to the ESIP Federation’s Finance and
 Appropriations Committee.
 
**Guiding Principles for Committee/Working Group
 Budget Proposals**

1.   All Committees and Working Groups may submit budget proposals. A
     coordinated Committee or Working Group proposal request is offered
     by the Chair and should be supported by a majority of the members
     of the group.

2.   The Committee or Working Group proposal request should describe
     how the work to be supported by the requested funds leverages and
     augments existing volunteer efforts by group members.

3.   The Finance and Appropriations Committee will review all committee
     and working group proposals and respond to the committees and
     working groups with tentative decisions. The Executive Committee
     will review recommendations of the Finance and Appropriations
     Committee, and if it agrees with the recommendations, will
     initiate appropriate actions to allocate funds.

4.   Committee and Working Group proposals will be evaluated on their
     direct long-term benefit to the ESIP Federation. Proposals should
     align with ESIP Federation strategic interests and should
     emphasize collaborations that provide long-term benefits to the
     ESIP community.

5.   Committees and Working Groups should consider proposals that
     leverage collaborative activities.

 **Required Elements**

1.   Funded activities will advance one or more identified ESIP
     community interests, such as the following examples:
    
    a.   ESIP community-level technical solutions that ESIP partners
         can collectively develop and utilize.
    
    b.   Travel support to represent an ESIP entity at a professional
         meeting.
    
    c.   Short-term projects that can be sustained beyond the funded
         period.

2.   Funded activities will align with the ESIP Federation’s strategic
     plan.
    
    a.   Budget proposals will describe how each proposed activity will
         meet strategic priorities.
    
    b.   Proposed activities will be mapped to specific strategic plan
         goals or objectives.
    
    c.   Budget proposals will rank individual funding requests as
         Essential, Important, or Desired.

3.   Committee and Working Group budgets will be based on the
     deliberations of the entire Committee/Working Group, including
     open competition among the membership.
    
    a.   Notice of budget deliberations must be sent by the
         Committee/Working Group chair to the membership at least 14
         days prior to such deliberations.

4.   Funded activities and their responsible Committee or Working Group
     will submit required reports to the Executive Committee.
    
    a.   Reports will be submitted semi-annually, 30 days prior to the
         January and July meetings.
    
    b.   Reports will document milestones, money spent, and finished
         products,as appropriate.
    
    c.  Report formats can vary, as long as the required information
         is provided (e.g., committee or working group wiki page, blog
         post).

5.   Committees and Working Groups that are funded will actively
     participate in semi-annual meetings during the funded period.
     Examples of participation include Collaboration Area poster,
     poster during the evening reception, workshop, and demonstration.

6.   Funding activities shall be consistent with the guidelines
     established, and/or regulations contained, in cooperative
     agreements and other federal funding sources, of which the
     Foundation for ESIP is a recipient.

**General Provisions**

  -  Support for projects will be based on an approved fee for services
     and not on an hourly rate.

  -  No overhead can be claimed on funded Committee and Working Group
     activities.

  -  Unspent Committee or Working Group budget resources will revert to
     the general fund, at the end of the fiscal year.

  -  Clusters do not have annual budgets. However, Clusters can submit
     "as needed budgets" for [*"special
     projects."*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b3ZZ7pvDHsx9Qf8wv-9VXi8IEdm7MLSmBNGQ_Elk1b0/edit#)

  -  Technical innovations that have limited appeal to the broad ESIP
     community should be submitted to FUNding Friday competitions.

  -  Committee and Working Group proposals should benefit the broader
     ESIP community and work toward a sustainable infrastructure for
     the ESIP Federation and its partners.

  -  Committee and Working Group budget requests are due annually on
     August 15.

This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.

Commit message:

Add an explicit stipend policy

ESIP Policies and Procedures/3.0 Business and Finance/ESIP P&P 3.3F Federation Committee Budget Request Policy.md, after:

 ### ESIP Federation Policy on Committee and Working Group Proposals and Supporting Budget Requests
 
 The ESIP Federation makes funds available to its committees and
 working groups through an annual budget process (funds permitting).
 The following details the guiding principles and required elements for
 any budget request submitted to the ESIP Federation’s Finance and
 Appropriations Committee.
 
**Guiding Principles for Committee/Working Group
 Budget Proposals**

1.   All Committees and Working Groups may submit budget proposals. A
     coordinated Committee or Working Group proposal request is offered
     by the Chair and should be supported by a majority of the members
     of the group.

2.   The Committee or Working Group proposal request should describe
     how the work to be supported by the requested funds leverages and
     augments existing volunteer efforts by group members.

3.   The Finance and Appropriations Committee will review all committee
     and working group proposals and respond to the committees and
     working groups with tentative decisions. The Executive Committee
     will review recommendations of the Finance and Appropriations
     Committee, and if it agrees with the recommendations, will
     initiate appropriate actions to allocate funds.

4.   Committee and Working Group proposals will be evaluated on their
     direct long-term benefit to the ESIP Federation. Proposals should
     align with ESIP Federation strategic interests and should
     emphasize collaborations that provide long-term benefits to the
     ESIP community.

5.   Committees and Working Groups should consider proposals that
     leverage collaborative activities.

 **Required Elements**

1.   Funded activities will advance one or more identified ESIP
     community interests, such as the following examples:
    
    a.   ESIP community-level technical solutions that ESIP partners
         can collectively develop and utilize.
    
    b.   Travel support to represent an ESIP entity at a professional
         meeting.
    
    c.   Short-term projects that can be sustained beyond the funded
         period.

2.   Funded activities will align with the ESIP Federation’s strategic
     plan.
    
    a.   Budget proposals will describe how each proposed activity will
         meet strategic priorities.
    
    b.   Proposed activities will be mapped to specific strategic plan
         goals or objectives.
    
    c.   Budget proposals will rank individual funding requests as
         Essential, Important, or Desired.

3.   Committee and Working Group budgets will be based on the
     deliberations of the entire Committee/Working Group, including
     open competition among the membership.
    
    a.   Notice of budget deliberations must be sent by the
         Committee/Working Group chair to the membership at least 14
         days prior to such deliberations.

4.   Funded activities and their responsible Committee or Working Group
     will submit required reports to the Executive Committee.
    
    a.   Reports will be submitted semi-annually, 30 days prior to the
         January and July meetings.
    
    b.   Reports will document milestones, money spent, and finished
         products,as appropriate.
    
    c.  Report formats can vary, as long as the required information
         is provided (e.g., committee or working group wiki page, blog
         post).

5.   Committees and Working Groups that are funded will actively
     participate in semi-annual meetings during the funded period.
     Examples of participation include Collaboration Area poster,
     poster during the evening reception, workshop, and demonstration.

6.   Funding activities shall be consistent with the guidelines
     established, and/or regulations contained, in cooperative
     agreements and other federal funding sources, of which the
     Foundation for ESIP is a recipient.

**General Provisions**

  -  Support for projects will be based on an approved fee for services
     and not on an hourly rate.

  -  No overhead can be claimed on funded Committee and Working Group
     activities.

  -  Unspent Committee or Working Group budget resources will revert to
     the general fund, at the end of the fiscal year.

  -  Clusters do not have annual budgets. However, Clusters can submit
     "as needed budgets" for [*"special
     projects."*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1b3ZZ7pvDHsx9Qf8wv-9VXi8IEdm7MLSmBNGQ_Elk1b0/edit#)

  -  Technical innovations that have limited appeal to the broad ESIP
     community should be submitted to FUNding Friday competitions.

  -  Committee and Working Group proposals should benefit the broader
     ESIP community and work toward a sustainable infrastructure for
     the ESIP Federation and its partners.

  -  Committee and Working Group budget requests are due annually on
     August 15.

  -  ESIP does not pay stipends and/or gifts to volunteers.  ESIP community members are volunteers, and in order to comply with the Volunteer Protection Act, ESIP cannot pay stipends.  Doing so would take away protections given to volunteers under the Volunteer Protection Act. An exception to this policy would be cases where the payment of stipends is specifically stated in ESIP’s cooperative agreement and/or grants with a funder.  In this case, the money will be paid from the budget set forth in the agreement and not from committee budgets.


This Policy was approved by the Board of Directors of ESIP on October
17, 2017.
